<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>1</title>
  </head>
  <body><seg>受热固体在其冷却过程中的收缩作用，被利用在铆接上。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Contraction during cooling of heated solids is made use of in riveting.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>曾试图再生催化剂，其方法是在<bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>300<ept i="1"/>℃的温度下以<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>8cm<ept i="2"/><bpt i="3" type="3"/>3<ept i="3"/><bpt i="4" type="4" x="3"/>/s<ept i="4"/>的流速对催化剂通氧<bpt i="5" type="5" x="4"/>4<ept i="5"/>小时。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>Attempts were made to regenerate the catalyst by passing oxygen at the rate of 8cc/sec.<ept i="1"/><bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/> <ept i="2"/><bpt i="3" type="4" x="3"/>for 4 hours at 300<ept i="3"/>℃<bpt i="4" type="5" x="4"/>.<ept i="4"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电能可以储存在由一绝缘介质隔开的两块金属极板内。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Electrical energy can be stored in two metal plates separated by an insulating medium.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这类装置称之为电容器，其储存电能的能力叫做电容。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Such a device is called a capacitor, or a condenser, and its ability to store electrical energy (is called) capacitance.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电容的测量单位是法拉。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is measured in farads.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>所有信号分成许多组，而若干组信号又组合成一个复合信号。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The signals are grouped into packages and a number of packages (are) combined into a composite signal.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>顶风时速度为每小时<bpt i="1" type="1"/>20<ept i="1"/>英里，顺风时速度为每小时<bpt i="2" type="2"/>80<ept i="2"/>英里。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The speed against the wind is 20 miles per hour and with the wind 80 miles.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>第一个计划将需要至少<bpt i="1" type="1"/>108<ept i="1"/>周，而第二个计划将只需<bpt i="2" type="2"/>72<ept i="2"/>周。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The first program would require a minimum of 108 weeks, the second only 72 weeks.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在本书中<bpt i="1" type="1"/>T<ept i="1"/>将只表示温度，除非另有说明。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>T will represent temperature alone in this book unless otherwise stated.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>自然界中发现的元素大部分是同位素的混合物。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Most elements as found in nature are mixtures of isotopes.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在河口湾出现的混合物越强烈，次表层向陆地方向的流量越来越大。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The more mixing that occurs in the estuary, the greater is the landward flow in the substance layer.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于空气是由几种不同的纯净物组成，它是一种混合物。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Composed of several different substances, air is mixture.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>拉力性能的改善确实确实取决于热处理过程。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The improvement of tensile properties depends indeed on the procedures of heat treatment, as in Fig. 5.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>围绕中心向内吹的风与等压线构成<bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>20<ept i="1"/>°～<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>40<ept i="2"/>°的夹角。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>The wind directed inward around the center makes angles of 20<ept i="1"/>°<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>to 40<ept i="2"/>°<bpt i="3" type="5"/>with the isobars.<ept i="3"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>标量是只计大小的量。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A scalar quantity is one defined by its magnitude alone.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这样给的数字不能提供什么有用的情报。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Thus presented, the figures give no useful information.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些小装置设有电动压缩泵，因而有“电”冰箱之称。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>These small units have an electrically compressive pump, hence they have the name “electric” refrigerator.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果在一张世界地图上把具有相同温度异常的地点以等异常线画出来，结果就可得到一张气温等异常图。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>If lines, called isanomals, are drawn on a world map, joining places of equal thermal anomaly, an isanomalous map is the result.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果把这些物质放在一起并在常压下加热到<bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>25<ept i="1"/>℃，则结果会产生一种新的化合物。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>If put together and heated to 25<ept i="1"/>℃<bpt i="2" type="3"/> at constant pressure, these substances will result in a new compound.<ept i="2"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电子学是一切电信系统的基础。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Electronics is the basis of all telecommunication systems.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>很多年以前，科学家们就认识到疟疾是由病菌引起的，该病菌是由某种蚊子携带的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Many years ago, scientists were convinced that malaria is caused by a germ carried by a certain species of mosquito.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>食盐溶于水。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Common salt dissolves in water.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>图<bpt i="1" type="1"/>2<ept i="1"/>示出了炼油厂的总布置图。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Figure 2 shows the principal layout of an oil refinery.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>锡可以耐受空气或水的腐蚀的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Tin is resistant to corrosion by air or water.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>反应已经终止。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The reaction has already come to an end.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>现代科学的最显著特点之一，就是全世界科学家及科学机构之间不断发展更为密切的合作的趋势。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>One of the most striking characteristics of modern science has been the increasing trend towards closer cooperation between scientists and scientific institutions all over the world.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>帕斯卡把一根水银管带到山顶上，当即发现水银柱随高度的增加而降低。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Pascal carried a mercury tube to the top of a mountain and observed that the column fell steadily as the height increased.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>培养方式<bpt i="1" type="1"/>A<ept i="1"/>显示有大量的干重，而这种培养方式所使用的铵盐量最大。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The highest dry weight is shown for culture A, which received the greatest amount of the ammonium salt.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这可能意味着添加的氨量是这些实验的决定性条件。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This may mean that the amount of nitrogen added was the determining condition for the experiments.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在这些试验的其他条件不变的情况下，当土壤里添加了硫酸铵时，稻子生长得较好。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Rice grew better, under the other conditions of these tests, when ammonium sulphate was added to the soil.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>直到<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1949<ept i="1"/>年急流才作为一种气象实体现象为人们充分认识到。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The jet stream was not fully recognized as a meteorological entity until 1949.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>据报道，科学工作者曾针对储存太阳能的问题进行过多年的研究。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It was reported that scientists had worked at the problem of storing the sun’s heat for many years.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>资料刚在图上填完，分析就开始了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The data had no sooner been charted than analysis was started.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些科学家和技术人员下月将进行一项非常重要的测试。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The scientists and technicians will carry out a very important test next month.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>受压缩的气体的温度将会升高。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A gas under compression will become hotter.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在进行激光淬火时，工件表面先用能增大其吸收能力的物质（例如石墨或磷酸锰）涂敷，再借助高功率密度的光束的冲击而加热到奥氏体化温度；当移去光束时，就会因向工件体内的热传递而发生快递的冷却，快得足以促发马氏体转变，而无需施加外部冷却。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In laser hardening, the surface of the workplace, coated with a substance (e.g. graphite or manganese phosphate) which increases its absorptivity, is heated to austenitizing temperature by impingement of the beam at high power densities; on removal of the beam, cooling, sufficiently fast to promote martensitic transformation, takes place by heat transfer to the body of the component, no external cooling being applied.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>根据这种应用，多小型机系统中数据库的处理可以分配给专用的、通常可被系统内所有小型计算机访问的后端数据库管理处理器，或通过把原始数据转移到现场数据库的办法而把数据库分配到整个系统中去，并借助于最大限度减少通信设备负载来完成计算更新。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Depending on the application, database handling in a multimini system may be assigned to a special-purpose back-end data base management processor that usually can be accessed by all the minis in the system, or the data bases may be distributed throughout the system in such a way that transfer of raw data is to site of the database and computing updates are performed in a manner that minimizes the load on the communications facility.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>氧气也是穿过耐火炉壁向上喷吹到炉池中，从而达到热状态与化学条件的严格控制、良好的工艺灵活性和很高的反应速度，并将耐火材料问题、烟尘问题以及其他采用一般常规风口或顶吹法时所遇到的问题减小到最低限度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Oxygen is also injected upwards into the molten bath through the refractory walls providing close control of thermal and chemical conditions, superior process flexibility, high reaction rates and minimization of refractory, dust, and other problems encountered with conventional tuyeres or top-blowing methods.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在切削金属之前，应当把机器清理干净。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Before cutting metal you should carefully clean the machine.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此螺钉也可用在用以精密测量小物件直径的卡钳上。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The screw is also used in calipers for measuring very accurately the diameters of small objects.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>从这个化合物中释放氧是相当有难度的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>To liberate oxygen from this compound is rather difficult.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当往熔融生铁中吹氧时，硅首先开始氧化。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When oxygen is blown into molten pig iron, silicon begins to oxidize first.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>实验表明，存在着化学性质和<bpt i="1" type="1"/>X<ept i="1"/>射线光谱完全相同但原子量等行之却迥异的两种铅，由此第一次证明了同位素的存在。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The experimental demonstration of the existence of two kinds of lead, identical in chemical properties and X-ray spectra but different in properties involving atomic mass, was the first proof of the existence of isotopes.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>每当时机出现时，都应当进行精深观测以便获得这一大气事件的精细结构的资料。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Whenever occasion arises intensive observations are to be done to get the information on the fine structure of the atmospheric event.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在清风吹拂或河道流量减少期间，海岸附近的洋流往往会小得几乎难以察觉。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>During periods of light winds or reduced river flow coastal currents often become so weak as to be barely discernible.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>该热量能促使反应加速进行。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The heat causes the reaction to be accelerated.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在通讯系统中，电子学要解决的问题是如何把信息从一个地方传送到另一个地方。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In communication, the problem of electronics is how to convey information from one place to another.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>要使潮波在赤道上移动的速度跟得上月亮，海洋深度必须为<bpt i="1" type="1"/>22<ept i="1"/>千米左右。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In order for the tide waves to move fast enough at the equator to keep up with the moon, the ocean would have to be about 22 km deep.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果与风暴中产生的巨浪相结合，飓风涌浪可具有极大的破坏性。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Combined with extremely high waves generated by the storm, hurricanes surges can be highly destructive.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>纯铁是银白色的金属，熔点为<bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>1535<ept i="1"/>℃<bpt i="2" type="2"/>.<ept i="2"/></seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>Pure iron is a silver-white metal, melting at 1535<ept i="1"/>℃。</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>建造于古代，这些皇家墓葬群而今已成为最令人振奋的考古遗迹之一。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Built in ancient times, the imperial graves have now become one of the most exciting archaeological sites.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果我们让三个气团—一个冷气团，一个暖气团和有一个冷气团—依次由西向东运动，则会出现两个峰。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Two fronts will exist if we have three air masses, a cold, a warm, and a cold, moving from west to east one after another.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这次实验的结果令人颇为失望，因此该实验必须从头再来一次。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The result of the experiment is rather disappointing, so it has to be done all over again.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>其他条件相同时，蒸散率随湿度增大而减小。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Other things being equal, the evapotranspiration rate decreases with increasing humidity.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一种流体走外管，另一种流体走内管，通过管壁进行热交换。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>One of the fluids flows through the outside pipe, the other through the inside pipe, with heat exchange taking place through the wall.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一物体绝不会对另一物体施加作用力而不受到该物体的反作用力。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>One object never exerts a force upon another without the second reacting against the first.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>受热时，装在气囊里的空气就膨胀，于是气球就上升了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>On being heated, air trapped in the gas bag expanded, so the balloon rose.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>串联电路的优点是能在需要时加大电阻以减小电流。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Series circuits have the advantage of increasing resistance to reduce current when this is desirable.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>切削金属绝非简单的操作。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Cutting metal is no simple operation.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这一工序叫做定向冷却。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This process is called directional cooling.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>设备中的热熔线圈出了故障。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There is something wrong with the heating coil in the device.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这解释了融化中的冰和结冰中的水会具有相同温度的原因。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This accounts for melting ice and freezing water having the same temperature.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>油轮把原油运到炼油厂，在那里对原油进行加工。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The oil tanker carries crude oil to a refinery, where the oil is processed.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>始终存在着交叉的横向稳定磁场和纵向交变磁场。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There are always crossed transverse steady and longitudinal alternating fields.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这一可能性在试验中于一定程度上得到了证实。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This possibility was supported to a limited extent in the tests.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>只需再经过几次试验，价格低廉的人工心脏很快便可研制成功。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The development of an economical artificial heart is only a few transient failures away.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>橡胶性软，受压会变形。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Rubber is not hard; it gives way to pressure.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>每件产品均须达到严格的质量标准。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Each product must be produced to rigid quality standard.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>几乎各类车辆都一直靠汽油机驱动；现在它也用于飞机和汽艇。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The petrol engine has been used to drive almost every kind of thing that runs on wheels; it is also used for aeroplane and small boats.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>工程陶瓷主要由所谓耐热氧化物以及许多过渡金属的硼化物、碳化物、氮化物和硅化物组成。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The engineering ceramics consists mainly of the so-called refractory oxides and the borides, carbides, nitrides, and silicides of many of the transition metals.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>金属铁的含量是通过电化学溶解的方法用硝酸铜溶液加以确定的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Metallic iron contents were determined by electrochemical solution of the iron with copper nitrate solution.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>铝箔和铝带的制造原理进来一直是一系列研究的主题。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The principles of aluminum foil and strip manufacture have been the subject of a series of investigations recently.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>比如说，对纽约市进行人工降雨可能意味着在该市上风不过几英里处进行一次撒播作业。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>For example, the artificial modification of rain at New York City may suggest a seeding activity just a few miles upward of the metropolis.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>为了进行天气预报，自古以来人们就一直观察天象、风向、大气以及其他各种天气征兆。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Since earliest time, men have watched the sky, the wind, and the atmosphere, as well as a variety of other weather signs, in order to make weather forecast.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这里的设想是，在气象记录中找出一些尽可能类似于当前天气状况的气候条件。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The idea here is to locate in the weather records conditions that are as analogous to the current conditions as possible.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>气体不管装在何种容器里，都会把容器充满。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A gas occupies all of any container in which it is placed.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>去除这种酸性污染物的最有效的方法是对废气进行冷却，然后加以中和。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The most effective method of removing this acid contaminant is to cool and then neutralize the exhaust gases.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>图<bpt i="1" type="1"/>2<ept i="1"/>为阐明<bpt i="2" type="2"/>SL/RN<ept i="2"/>法的流程图。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The flow sheet shown in Fig.2 is intended to illustrate the SL/RN process.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我认为，网络经济、中国的经济改革、新技术的采纳和快速增长的国民经济的相互交融，把中国推向了一个突出的位置。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It's my belief that this confluence of a networked economy, China’s reforms, embrace of new technologies and a rapidly growing economy put China in a unique position.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人类破坏大自然的同时也就是在摧毁人类自身，反之亦然，这不仅是在理论上是可能的，而且在现实中也是完全可能的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is not only possible but altogether probable that by diminishing nature we diminish ourselves, and vice versa.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>氢是所有元素中最轻的元素。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Of all elements, hydrogen is the lightest one.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>用高倍望远镜观察到的恒星，绝大多数都在银河系。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>By far, the largest number of the stars that we see through a powerful telescope are in the Milky Way System.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>不论运动方向怎样，摩擦总是与运动城反作用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Friction always oppose the motion whatever its direction may be.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>刀具使用前，应仔细加以检查。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Cutting tools should be inspected carefully before they are used.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>用电解法生产的氢几乎是纯氢，虽然比用热裂法制取氢昂贵得多。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The hydrogen produced by electrolysis is nearly pure, though rather more expensive than that obtained by the thermal cracking process.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>粉煤喷吹显然早在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1948<ept i="1"/>年就在（前）苏联实现了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Powder coal injection was apparently accomplished as early as 1948 in Russia.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>而西方国家报道的第一次工业试验，则是在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1962<ept i="1"/>年才由（美国的）国民钢铁公司和伯利恒钢铁公司完成的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>However, the first commercial scale trial reported by a western country was carried out by National Steel and Bethlehem Steel in 1962.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>导线越粗，电阻越小。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The thicker is the wire, the smaller is the resistance.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>空气的温度越高，它能吸取的水蒸气就越多。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The air can absorb the more water, the higher its temperature is.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>雨水少的地方，水库就会给我们提供水。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Where there is little rain, the reservoir would provide us with water.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>无论控制系统什么地方发生故障，都会发出信号。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A signal will be shown wherever anything wrong occurs with the control system.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>病菌可通过煮沸或少量加入某些化学药品加以杀灭。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Disease bacteria may be killed by boiling, or by adding small amounts of certain chemicals.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>许多人造材料正在取代某些天然材料，这或者是因为天然产品的数量不能满足人类不断增长的需求，或者更多的是因为合成物（这是各种人造材料的统称）的物理性能被选中，甚至受到极大的重视，因而使得它将会在即将加以应用的领域发挥最大的功效。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Many man-made substances are replacing certain natural materials either because the quantity of the natural products cannot meet out ever-increasing requirement, or more often, because the physical properties of the synthetic substance, which is the common name for man-made materials, have been chosen, and even emphasized so that it would be of the greatest use in the field which it is to be applied.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>（前）苏联成千上万家企业层采用的产品质量综合管理体系，是在整个企业范围内实行质量管理过程中使企业内各个管理机构和各种管理对象相互作用的综合体，这种互动是借助于材料部门、技术部门和信息部门实现的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The integrated product quality control system once used by thousands of enterprises in the Soviet Union is a combination of controlling bodies and objects under control interacting with the help of material, technical and information facilities when exercising QC at the level of an enterprise.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>每一个家族企业，无论规模大小，技术含量高低，众所周知还是默默无闻。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Whether large or small, high-tech or low, public or private, ever family-owned business is different.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>真空管脚是制成针状，装在管子底部。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The terminals of the tube are made in the form of pins at the base of the tube.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种转子的结构设计得很好，它由一个迭片铁心构成，铁心上绕着线圈。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This type of rotor has a well-designed structure consisting of a laminated core containing a winding.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>金属在淬火之后必须回火。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Having been hardened, the metal must be given a temperature treatment.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当普通的棒硫溶解于少量称为二氧化硫的不可燃液体中，并且将此溶液倾倒入结晶盘内，我们便发现该溶液会缓慢地蒸发，而以留下呈细小晶体状的硫。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When ordinary roll sulphur is dissolved in a small quantity of the inflammable liquid known as carbon bisulphide and the solution is poured into a crystallizing dish, we find that the solvent slowly evaporates leaving the sulphur in the shape of crystals.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>假如允许通过安培计的电流太多，则当接通该安培计时就会使电压会下降，因而所测得的电压值便是错误的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>If too much current flowed through an ammeter, the voltage would fall when it was connected, and the measured voltage would be wrong.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果甲烷受到冷却和压缩，它就会液化。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>If methane is cooled and compressed, it liquefies.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>气缸中的爆燃温度是如此之高，以致气缸壁的金属材料经受不住。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The temperature of the explosion in the cylinders is so high that the metal of the cylinder walls cannot stand it.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们必须有重量、体积和长度单位，以便度量物质。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>We must have units of weight, volume, and length to measure matter.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>某些合金元素能使钢的晶粒细化，从而提高了钢的硬度和强度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Some alloying elements make the grain of the steel finer, thus increasing the hardness and strength of steel.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>而今，气象学家们对于飓风形成、运动和消失的机理已经了然于胸。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Nowadays meteorologists have already been clear about how the hurricane forms, moves and disappears.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>催化剂和稀释剂先给入混合槽中，而后同乙烯和氢一起送入反应器。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Catalyst and diluent are initially fed to a mixing tank prior to being passed on to the reactor along with ethylene and hydrogen.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>现时对光子计算甚感兴趣的基本原因，乃是总也不能满足的对更快速计算机的需求。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Underlying much of the current interest in optical computing is the insatiable need for faster machines.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>全世界都采用相同的数学符号。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Through the world come to use the same signs and symbols for mathematics.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>只有以这种方式你才能成功地做好这个实验。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Only in this way can you succeed in making the experiment.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一定重量的气体的体积与绝对温度成正比，假如压力不变的话。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The volume of a given weight of gas varies directly as the absolute temperature, provided that the pressure does not change.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>宏观物质的波动特性不明显，因为其波长很短，难以察觉。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The “wave” properties of macroscopic matter are not apparent because the wavelength is undetectably small.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>传播在这张图上表现为向某一方向倾斜的表示云量的连线。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Propagation is manifested on this diagram as a coherent line of cloudiness sloping in one direction or another.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们正在慢慢摸索着去理解这些事物。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>We are slowly groping towards an understanding of those things.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电热器能将其电能转化为热能。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Electric heaters can have their electric energy transformed into heat.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>性质与光相似的辐射能</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>radiant energy similar in nature to light</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>该金属对酸性腐蚀的耐受性</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>resistance of the metal to acid corrosion</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>从静止状态开始落下的自由落体</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>a freely falling body starting at rest</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>能量以波的形式从太阳传播到地球上。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Energy comes to the earth from the sun in the form of waves.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>许多年以前，人们并不了解这个事实：是地球围绕太阳转而不是相反。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Many years ago, people did not learn about the fact that it is the earth that revolves around the sun instead of the latter revolving around the former.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种金属是采用空气熔炼还是真空熔炼。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is no matter that the metal melts in air or vacuum.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电解质就是其水溶液能导电的那些化合物。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Electrolytes are compounds whose water solutions conduct electricity.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>像拉乌尔定律一样，亨利定律适用于一定范围，该范围对每一体系而言是不同的，但亨利定律仅只在低浓度时才有效。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Like Raoult’s law, Henry’s law applies within a concentration range whose extent varies from one system to another, but it is valid only at low concentration.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>运动部件间的摩擦力使金属磨损，这就缩短了这些部件的使用寿命。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Friction wears away metal in the moving parts, which shortens their working life.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>静止的物体不可能运动，除非对它施加作用力。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A body at rest cannot move unless a force acts upon it.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>力可用磅来计算，不管它是怎样产生的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Force is measured in pounds, no matter how it is produced.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>合金是介于混合物和化合物之间的一种中间结构。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Alloys belong to a half-way house between mixtures and compounds.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>好塑料的必要条件是合意的塑性、对酸碱的耐蚀性和混入各种色料的可能性。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The requirements of a good plastic are desirable plasticity, acid and alkali resistance, and the possibility to mix with various colors.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人们将这种变化称之为化学变化。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>People call this kind of change chemical change.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此法免除了其他挥发物或有机物的干扰。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This method is free from interference by other volatile material or organic matter.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些钢质部件在冻结温度下摸起来冰冷。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The steel parts feel icy cold at freezing temperatures.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>原子能将会广泛而有效地加以利用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Atomic energy will be widely and effectively used.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>他发明了一种全新的工作方法。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>He invented a completely new method of work.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>所有放射性元素都在不断地蜕变。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>All radioactive elements are constantly disintegrating.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>没有催化剂能在本研究所采用的条件下保持稳定。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>No catalyst is stable under the conditions employed in this work.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>可以利用激光束在金刚石上打孔。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Use can be made of laser beams to burn a hole in a diamond.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>相对论预言，在引力场作用下，光不仅会弯曲，而且要减速。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Relativity predicts that light should be not only slowed but bent in a gravitation field.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>铝直到<bpt i="1" type="1"/>19<ept i="1"/>世纪才为人们所知，因为铝总是和其他元素—最常见的是氧（因为铝对氧的亲和力很强）—化合在一起，所以在自然界任何地方都找不到处于游离状态的铝。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Aluminum remained unknown until the 19<bpt i="1" type="2"/>th<ept i="1"/> century, because nowhere in nature is it found free, owing to its being always combined with other elements, most commonly with oxygen, for which it has a strong affinity.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>绝缘材料因为过热而烧毁了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The insulation was burnt for overheating.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>与铁不同，水银在常温下是液态。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Adverse to iron, mercury is in a liquid state at ordinary temperature.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>液体和蒸汽的混合物进入第一分离器。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The mixture of liquid and vapor passes into the first separator.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>拉长了的弹簧能在收缩到它的正常长度的过程中做功。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A stretched spring can do work in contracting to its normal length.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>假如便携式电器的挠性引线磨损而裸露其中的金属线，并且后者随后碰巧与该电器的金属部件相接触，那么谁碰到这些部件，谁就会触电。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>If the flexible leads of a portable electric appliance fray and break and the wires then happen to touch the metal parts of the appliance, these parts can give a severe electric shock to anyone who touches them.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果我们接入一个安培计来测量流入手电筒电珠里的电流，并接入另一个安培计去测量流出的电流，那么它们各自哦读数就会相同。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>If we connect one ammeter to measure the electric current flowing into a torch bulb and another one to measure the current flowing out, they each read the same.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>将石墨颗粒均匀地悬浮在整个盐浴中</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>to suspend graphite particles homogeneously throughout the salt both</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>围绕空间网格各个格点分布的对称要素的延伸网络</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>an extended network of symmetry elements distributed about the points of a space lattice</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>春潮每间隔<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1<ept i="1"/>周出现一次，通常出现在距离新月和满月几天之内。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Spring tides occur every two weeks, usually within a few days of the new and full moon.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此外，后门程序是多维的；因此，建议使用多种检测方法来最大限度地防范后门程序<bpt i="1" type="1"/>BO2000<ept i="1"/>在网络上的一台或多台电脑内安装，并且一旦有该程序装入，就可及其详尽地获知其相关情况。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In addition, backdoor programs are multi-dimensional, so several detection methods are recommended to achieve maximum protection against and awareness of the installation of BO 2000 on a machine or series of machines on a network.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>各种不同形式的能都可用来做功。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Different forms of energy all can be used to do work.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>麻省理工学院（<bpt i="1" type="1"/>MIT<ept i="1"/>）的研究人员已经开发出一种硅晶片移植技术，它有望在将来用于长期的药物服用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have developed a silicon wafer implant that may be used for long term drug administration in the future.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>用闪速熔炼法炼铜时产生的炉渣要缓慢地加以冷却，而后破碎、研磨至大小为<bpt i="1" type="1"/>200<ept i="1"/>目的颗粒，并进行浮选，以回收其所含的铜。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The slag produced during the flash smelting process would be slowly cooled, crushed, ground to 200-mesh, and floated for recovery of the contained copper.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>气压低，沸点就低。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When the pressure gets low, the boiling point becomes low.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>化学清洗明显优越，既适用于直管，也适用于弯管。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Chemical cleaning has the distinct advantage of being equally applicable to straight or bowed tubes.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>雷达发射的是波长非常短的电磁波。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Radar involves transmitting electromagnetic waves of very short wave length.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当达到露点温度时，水汽将从其看不见的状态凝结成可见的水分。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The water vapor will change from its invisible state to condense into invisible moisture when the dew point temperature is reached.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>充了电的电容器就像一个蓄电池一样。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The charges capacitor behaves as a secondary battery.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>然而，这个小组还建议及早确定几个精心设计的随机化的撒播试验，以便可对各种风暴类型的可撒播性进行评估。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>But the panel also recommended the early establishment of several carefully designed, randomized seeding experiments, planned in such a way as to permit assessment of the seedability of a variety of storm types.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>图<bpt i="1" type="1"/>3<ept i="1"/>中的流程图阐明了计算机的工作原理。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The flow sheet shown in Fig.3 is intended to illustrate how the computer works.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>那批易碎的瓷器经历了颠簸的旅途而完好无损。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The fragile china survived the bumpy journey safe and sound.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>气体分子运动起来比液体和固体分子更为自由。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The molecules in gases move more freely than do those of liquids and solids.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>原子是元素的最小粒子。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The atom is the smallest particle of an element.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>太阳从东方升起，至西方落下。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The sun rises in the east and sets in the west.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果能知道频率，就能求出波长。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>If you know the frequency, you can find the wave length.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>氢是最轻的元素，原子量为<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1.008<ept i="1"/>。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Hydrogen is the lightest element, with an atomic weight of 1.008.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>重力是向下的力，任何物体都会向下运动。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Weight is a down force, and therefore any object will move downward.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>太阳晒热地球，从而使植物得以生长。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The sun heats the earth, which makes it possible for plants to grow.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>要说明汽车的速度，就必须获知它的行驶方向。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>To state the velocity of a car we must find in which direction it is travelling.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>压力不变，一定重量的气体的体积与绝对温度成正比。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>If the pressure does not change, the volume of a given weight of gas will be in direct proportion to the absolute temperature.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>半导体设备没有灯丝，因而不需要加热功率和加热时间。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Semiconductor devices have no filament or heaters; hence they require no heating power or warmed-up time.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>有催化剂时反应速度的加速叫做催化作用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Increased rate of reaction, in the presence of catalyzers, is called catalysis, or catalytic action.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>激光而今正在很多领域得到广泛应用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation, or laser, is now widely used in a lot of fields.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当人们发现他们所曾接触过的人正患有艾滋病时，许多人会感觉恐慌。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Many may feel alarmed when people have found anybody they have contacted is ill with AIDS, or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>绝缘体实际上也导电，但其电阻很高。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Insulators in reality conduct electricity but, nevertheless, their resistance is very high.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>退化作用<bpt i="1" type="1"/>/<ept i="1"/>降解作用</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>degradation</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>分布状况</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>distribution</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>观察结果</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>observation</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>准备工作<bpt i="1" type="1"/>/<ept i="1"/>制备过程</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>preparation</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>还原反应<bpt i="1" type="1"/>/<ept i="1"/>作用<bpt i="2" type="2"/>/<ept i="2"/>过程</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>reduction</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>共振现象</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>resonance</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在快速氧化过程中会产生火焰。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In rapid oxidation a flame is produced.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当能量以辐射能形式存在时，可以在传递很长距离后，才被吸收或转化为热。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>While in the form of radiation, the energy may travel a tremendous distance before being absorbed or changed back into heat.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们的标准化处理使得图<bpt i="1" type="1"/>3<ept i="1"/>中的曲线可以被视为概率分布曲线。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Our normalization is such that the curves in Fig. can be regarded as probability distributions.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一到达对流层，温度就停止随着高度的降低而下降的过程。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>As soon as the tropopause is reached, temperature stops decreasing with height.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>综合自动控制系统能利用计算机监控整个操作过程。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The complex automatic control system monitors over the process by means of computers.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>引线的箭头标记着材料类型。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The arrows in the leads identify the materials.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>光波从光源扩散时，强度减弱。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Light waves weaken as they spread out from a source.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>20<ept i="1"/>世纪<bpt i="2" type="2"/>60<ept i="2"/>年代以前，人们关于<bpt i="3" type="3"/>30<ept i="3"/>千米左右以上的高空大气知识主要是根据地基观测推断得到的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Prior to the 1960s knowledge of the atmosphere above about 30km was based largely on inferences from ground-based observations.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这台新型电视机真是物美价廉。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This new type of TV set is really fine and inexpensive.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于电子传导是借助空穴和电子两者进行的，因而结型晶体管是双极式的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Since conduction is by both holes and electrons, the junction transistor is bipolar.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们必须把这些现象弄清楚。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>We must make the phenomena clear.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>已经在人造卫星上对脉冲激光系统进行了试验。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A pulsed laser system has been tested on a satellite.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>显然，较低的温度可以使细菌的活动减慢。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Clearly, cool temperature slows down the action of bacteria.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>车间里有一排排的机器设备，他以往可从未见识过。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There are rows of machines or equipment in the workshop he has never seen before.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>各传感器开关位于每条给料皮带末端附近。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Sensor switches are located near the end of each feed belt.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>第一批电子计算机于<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1946<ept i="1"/>年投入使用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The first electronic computers went into operation in 1946.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>“速度”和“速率”这两个词，如果不是用在技术书中，通常可认为是同义词。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The words “velocity” and “speed” are normally considered</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电动机可<bpt i="1" type="1"/>/<ept i="1"/>能将电能转换为机械能。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The electric motors covert electric energy into mechanical energy.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>高空飞机过去是而且现在仍旧是一种了不起的飞行器。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The high-altitude plane was and still is a remarkable bird.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>甚至在第二个五年计划之前，中国就已经在生产各种车床、机器、器械和仪表了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Even before the Second Five-year Plan, China was already producing all kinds of lathes, machines, apparatus and instruments.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>火箭的第一级在火箭起飞后仅仅几分钟就被扔掉。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The first stage of a rocket is thrown away only minutes after the rocket takes off.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>那些半导体材料本来是应该保存在某个干燥地方的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Those semiconductor materials should have been kept in some dry place.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>普通玻璃必须先消除色差才能制成光学玻璃。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Ordinary glass must be first achromatized to become optical glass.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>工艺流程中包括集水池，是为了消除来自五个来源的废水在流量和水质上的波动。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The collective reservoir is included in the flow scheme to iron out fluctuations in flows and qualities of the effluents from the five sources.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>气体即使封闭在刚性容器中，在高温下也会膨胀。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Confined in a rigid container, gas will expand at some high temperature.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>液体冻结时收缩，但水却是这一规律的一个重要例外。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Liquids contract in freezing; water is an important exception to this rule.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>白色的或发亮的表面反射热量，而黑色的表面则吸收热量。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>White or shining surfaces reflect heat; dark surfaces absorb it.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在顶吹转炉内，氧气经由一根叫做吹氧枪的水冷铜管喷吹到炉料的表面上。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Inside the L.D. converter oxygen is blown on to the surface of the charge through a water-cooled copper pipe, called a lance.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>于是氧气便同铁中的杂质发生剧烈的反应。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The oxygen reacts vigorously with impurities in the iron.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>第一类反应叫放热反应，第二类反应叫吸热反应。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Reactions of the first kind are called exothermic reactions and those of the second kind endothermic reactions.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当台风在陆地上移动时，其强度逐渐减弱。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When moving over land, a typhoon is gradually decreased in severity.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>高温和高压把这些埋藏在地下的有机物变成了煤、石油和天然气。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>High temperatures and pressures changed the underground organic materials into coal, petroleum and natural gas.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>实验发现，碘化银产生撒播效果的临界温度比干冰略低（碘化银为<bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>-5<ept i="1"/>℃到<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>-10<ept i="2"/>℃，而干冰为<bpt i="3" type="3" x="3"/>-3<ept i="3"/>℃到<bpt i="4" type="4" x="4"/>-4<ept i="4"/>℃）。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>It was found that there is a slightly colder threshold for seeding effect to occur for silver iodide than for dry ice (-5<ept i="1"/>℃<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/> to -10<ept i="2"/>℃<bpt i="3" type="3" x="3"/>for silver iodide versus -3<ept i="3"/>℃<bpt i="4" type="4" x="4"/> to -4<ept i="4"/>℃<bpt i="5" type="9"/> for dry ice<ept i="5"/>）<bpt i="6" type="10"/>.<ept i="6"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这正是这个实验意欲解决的问题。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This is what the experiment is intended to solve.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>是太阳给我们提供了光明和温暖。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is the sun that gives us light and warmth.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>尽管载荷发生变化，施加在其上的电压却仍保持相当的恒定。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Despite changes in the load, the voltage applied to it remains fairly constant.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>尽管面对国际的压力，和谈的进展仍已缓慢。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Despite international pressure, progress has slowed in the peace talks.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这辆小汽车的启动速度很快。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The speed at which the car starts is fast.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>科研人员对这种材料进行了热处理。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The researchers heat-treated this kind of material.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这个国家在军事、政治和经济等方面都很强大。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This country is militarily, politically and economically strong.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这篇论文评述了在直接还原、氧气碱性转炉炼钢和连续浇铸这三个方面的发展情况。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The thesis reviewed the developments accomplished in direct reduction, BOF process and continuous casting.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>19<ept i="1"/>世纪，潮汐振荡和声重力振荡的理论曾是受到极大关注的课题。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>During the 19<bpt i="1" type="2"/>th<ept i="1"/> century, the theories of tidal and acoustic gravity oscillations were subjects of great interest.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这磁场可以是条形磁铁的磁场，可以是马蹄形磁铁的磁场，也可以是电磁铁的磁场。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This magnetic field may be that of a bar magnet, a U-shaped magnet, or an electromagnet.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>所有这些预报评分均比通过预报前期温度将持续不变而获得的评分要高。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>All of these scores are higher than could be obtained by predicting temperatures of the previous to persist unchanged.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>数字系统的基本要求之一就是要有某种类型的存储器，换言之，也就是要有一种通过脉冲或边沿能使其置于逻辑<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1<ept i="1"/>，并能保持其电平直到施以复位脉冲为止的电路。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>One of the basic requirements within digital systems is for some kind of memory, in other words, a circuit that can be set to logic 1 by a pulse or edge and which will hold this level until the circuit gets a reset pulse.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于摩擦而产生的力称之为摩擦力。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The forces due to friction are called frictional forces.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>通过这种途径，既可避免高纬地区越变越冷，也可防止低纬地区越变越热。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Thereby the higher latitudes are prevented from becoming increasingly colder and the low latitudes from becoming increasingly hotter.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>山顶上升气流强度随速矢端迹曲率加大而稍有加强，在图上<bpt i="1" type="1"/>B<ept i="1"/>点是<bpt i="2" type="2"/>29.0<ept i="2"/>米<bpt i="3" type="3"/>/<ept i="3"/>秒，<bpt i="4" type="4"/>C<ept i="4"/>点是<bpt i="5" type="5"/>26.1<ept i="5"/>米<bpt i="6" type="6"/>/<ept i="6"/>秒。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Peak updraft strength is slightly enhanced with hodograph curvature, 29.0m/s in B versus 26.1m/s in C.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在这些波向外扩散的同时，它们也在按波长分开，这一过程叫频散。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>At the same time the waves are fanning out, they are also separating by wavelength, a process known as dispersion.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>过去三十年的研究已经产出了大量成果，揭示了昆虫害虫对杀虫剂所产生的抗药性的实质。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Research in the past thirty years has revealed a great deal about the nature of the resistance of insect pests to insecticides.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>到冬季快要开始的时候，沿岸的海水已经彻底混合，表层水和底层水几乎没有什么温度差和盐度差了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>By the time winter begins, coastal waters are thoroughly mixed, with virtually no temperature or salinity differences between surface and bottom waters.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当今世界充满危险，因此就有了那个令人毛骨悚然的笑话，说我们尚未受到外星文明造访的原因在于：但凡文明发展到我们目前这个阶段，它们往往就自行毁灭了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The world today is filled with danger, hence the sick joke that the reason we have not been contacted by an alien civilization is that civilizations tend to destroy themselves when they reach our stage.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果给出了风速、刮风时间和吹程，就有可能预报由某一特定风暴所引起的海浪的高度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Given wind speed, duration, and fetch, it is possible to predict the size of the waves generated by a given storm.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>渗碳法在飞机制造中比其他方法更常使用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Casehardening is used more often than the other methods in aircraft work.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>工具和工件不直接接触。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There is no physical contact between tool and workpiece.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>火箭已经用来探索宇宙。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Rocket has found application for the exploitation of the universe.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>使用计算机可以大大提高劳动生产力。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The application of electronic computers</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我认为，就数据库这门课而论，布朗先生比我教得好。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>I think that, as far as the course of database is concerned, Mr. Brown is a better teacher than me.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>计算机比人检查得更细心、更勤快。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The computer is a far more careful and industrious inspector than human beings.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>石蕊试纸可用以指示溶液中是否含有酸。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Litmus paper can be used as an indicator of the presence of acid in a solution.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在美国，冷雾消散的实际操作自<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1963<ept i="1"/>年以来一直是成功的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Cold fog dispersal has been an operational success in the U.S. since 1963.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>河流下游的情况是多种多样的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The lower stretches of rivers show considerable variety.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>政府发言人承认这位科学家关于在海洋沿岸建立核电站的想法是可行的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The government spokesman admitted the feasibility of the scientist's idea about establishing a nuclear power station along the coast.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>正在严密的安全保护下进行这项实验的技术人员感觉到，他们是极其安全的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Safety was deeply felt by the technicians who were carrying out this experiment amidst tight security.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>中国丰富石油资源的发现也是和石油工人的努力“争气”分不开的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The discovery of rich petroleum resources in China is also inseparable from the oil-workers’ efforts to “win honors”.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>大多数自然资源保护主义者认为，在良好的生态环境中，人类最易兴旺发达，而各种野生动物的持续生存是这种良好生态环境的标志。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Most of the conservationists believe that humans thrive best in ecological health and that the sign of this health is the survival of a diversity of wild animals.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>尼龙的强度几乎是天然丝的两倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Nylon is nearly twice as strong as natural silk.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>自由大气中的环流主要是纬向的，仅有微弱的经向性。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The circulation of the free atmosphere is largely zonal and only to a slight extent meridional.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>日常生活经验告诉我们，重东西的稳定性比轻东西要好些。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Everyday experience shows us that heavy objects are more stable than light ones.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>很长时间以来，科学家们深信物质是不灭的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>For a long time, scientists are confident that all matter is indestructible.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>他们十分熟悉这类晶体管放大器的性能。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>They are very familiar with the performance of this type of transistor amplifier.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>尽在几年以前，废汽车切碎后的非磁性部分只用手选法回收一些铜、锌和铝，然后就大部分弃置到填埋场了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Only a few years ago, most of the nonmagnetic fraction of a shredded car was disposed of in landfill areas after hand-picking to recover some of the copper, inc and aluminum.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>水在<bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>4<ept i="1"/>℃以下是不断地膨胀，而不是不断地收缩。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>When blow 4<ept i="1"/>℃<bpt i="2" type="3"/>, water is in continuous expansion instead of continuous contraction.<ept i="2"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>等离子平板电视技术是今年才发展起来的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The Plasma Display Panel Television technology is fairly recent development.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>他们特别重视提高电子设备的质量。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>They laid special emphasis on raising the quality of electronic devices.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>图形的尺寸必须正确。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The image must be dimensionally correct.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>氯的化学性质和活泼。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Chlorine is very active chemically.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这项发现有多大的历史意义？</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>How historically significant is this discovery?</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>他们的科研任务完成得很漂亮，硕果累累。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Their tasks in research have been beautifully fulfilled with a lot of good results.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>从涤气器里出来的洗涤水夹带有大量的固体颗粒。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The wash water from the gas washer was heavily laden with solid particles.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>大家知道，气体是完美的弹性体。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is a matter of common observation that gases are perfectly elastic.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此地的电是由附近的一家核电站供给的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The electricity here is supplied by a nuclear power station nearby.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>美国绝大多数间谍卫星，按其设计（构想），是在完成其使命之后，在大气层中焚毁。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Most US spy satellites are designed to burn up in the earth’s atmosphere after completing their missions.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>涂层的厚度范围为<bpt i="1" type="1"/>0.1<ept i="1"/>～<bpt i="2" type="2"/>0.2 <ept i="2"/>毫米。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Coating thickness range from one tenth mm to 2 mm.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>色彩亮丽是他的绘画的典型特征。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Bright colors characterize his paintings.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电子和原子的行为方式，多少有点像一组波。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>An electron or an atom behaves in some ways as thought it were a group of waves.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>通常用字母<bpt i="1" type="1"/>I<ept i="1"/>来表示电流，用<bpt i="2" type="2"/>E<ept i="2"/>来表示电动势，用<bpt i="3" type="3"/>R<ept i="3"/>来表示电阻。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The letter I is commonly used for current, E for electromotive force, R for resistance.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在临界温度以上和高压下，蒸汽可能会变得像处于低温下的液体那样密度高且不可压缩。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Above the critical temperature and under high pressure the vapor may become as dense and as incompressible as the liquid at lower temperature.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>生铁是一种铁碳合金，其碳含量在百分之二以上。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Pig iron is an alloy of iron and carbon wih carbon content more than 2 per cent.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>原子内的大部分空间是空的，其全部物质几乎都集中到称之为原子核的一个极小的核内。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>An atom is mostly empty space with almost all its substance concentrated into a tiny kernel called the nucleus.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在对流层，气温随高度增加而降低，其递减率通常为每上升<bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>100<ept i="1"/>米下降<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>0.6<ept i="2"/>℃。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>The temperature decreases with elevation through the troposphere at a rate, normally, of about 0.6<ept i="1"/>℃<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/> for 100m.<ept i="2"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>从世界各地送展的新型高技术设备中有许多是中国制造的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There are new types of high-tech equipment here from all over the world and many of them are made in China.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>信号表明，计算机没有毛病。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The signal was shown about the computer’s being in order.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>地球绕轴自转，引起昼夜的变化。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The rotation of the earth on its own axis causes the change from day to night.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种金属的电阻太高，所以我们不能用它做导电线材。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The resistance of this metal is too high for us to use it as a conductor of electricity.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些马达作为泵工作时，（它们）就会给储能箱增压使车减速。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The motors are engaged as pumps, building pressure in an accumulator tank to slow the car.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>地球大气随地球的自传和在其中的热输送状况导致具有上述特征的不规则波的形成。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Conditions of rotation and heat transfer in the atmosphere of the earth are such that irregular waves of the characteristics described above will form.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>过了几年在这一领域才有了突破。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It was a few years before a breakthrough was made in this field.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这就是此方程的含义。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This is what the equation means.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这就是这台设备的工作原理。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This is how this device works.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>虽然华氏温标很不方便，但英国和美国仍在使用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The Fahrenheit is quite inconvenient, yet it is still used in England and U.S.A.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>水汽较轻，否则它不会升到空中。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Water vapor is lighter, which would otherwise not rise into air.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>设上图中<bpt i="1" type="1"/>AB<ept i="1"/>代表一个倾斜平面，其表面光滑且非曲面。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Let AB in the figure above represent an inclined plane the surface of which is smooth and unbending.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这样的缓慢压缩能使这种气体经历一系列状态，但各种状态都很接近于平衡状态，所以这一过程被叫做准静态过程，或“近似静态”过程。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Such a slow compression carries the gas through a series of states, each of which is very nearly an equilibrium state and it is called a quasi-static or a “nearly static” process.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在理解了温度的概念以后，又经过多年的科学研究，人们才确定了热的真正性质。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>After the concept of temperature became understood, there were many years of scientific development before the real nature of heat was established.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>1752<ept i="1"/>年，电学的研究还几乎没有开始，富兰克林就已在雷暴云中进行了危险的风筝实验，从而奠定了大气电学的基础。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The study of electricity had hardly begun when Franklin, in 1752, conducted his dangerous kite experiment in a thunderstorm, founding the science of atmospheric electricity.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>而今，关于原子的真实性已无争议，它们在分子和晶体中的结合方式已被很好地了解，因此化学计算的三定律可被看作是原子的存在及其性质所引发的简单结果。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Now, when there is no question as to the reality of atoms and when their mode of combination in molecules and crystals is well understood, the three laws of stoichiometry are seen to be simple consequences of the existence and properties of atoms.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>随着风力明显增大，蒸发也显著增强。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Wind increased sharply with the result that evaporation went up remarkably.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们现金所知道的这个宇宙当初可能起始于一场巨大的爆炸。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The universe as we know it might have begun with a great explosion.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果植物处于缺水状态，它们就无法良好生长。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Plants which were in the absence of water would not grow well.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>要制造原子弹，我们必须用铀<bpt i="1" type="1"/>235<ept i="1"/>，因为铀的所有原子都会裂变。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>To make an atomic bomb we have to use uranium 235, in which all the atoms are available for fission.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种事件是在经过短时间中断生产之后，在反应器仍然是热的情况下重新操作时偶然发生的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When operation was resumed after a short interruption, when the reactors were still hot, such event occurred momentarily.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>信息必须先从声音转变成电，才能由无线电传播。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Messages have to be changed from sound into electricity before they can be sent by radio.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>风可以把沙子带到许多英里以外的地方。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Sand may be carried many miles by the wind.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>水是由氧和氢构成的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Water consists of oxygen and hydrogen.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>船只可能不得不等待多日才能等到合适的海波和潮流，从而使得它们能安全地进港。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Ships may have to wait for days before finding a time when incoming waves and tidal currents are right, permitting them to enter the harbor with safety.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>计算机发明于<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1946<ept i="1"/>年，而今已取得惊人的进展，发生了振奋人心的变化。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Invented in 1946, the computer has now made surprising advances and exciting changes.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>中国人似乎为他们在经济上的成就而自豪，这是合乎情理的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The Chinese seemed justifiably proud of their own economic achievements.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>因为他没有遵守安全规章，所以机器出了故障。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>His failure to observe the safety regulations resulted in an accident to the machinery.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>鱼能发电，其强度足以点亮小灯泡，甚至能驱动马达。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The idea of a fish being able to generate electricity strong enough to light small bulbs, even to run an electric motor, is almost unbelievable.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>改进的表格灵活性很大，你可以利用这一特点快捷地绘制和设计表格，并可以自动地在表格周围进行文字环绕，还可创建含有浮动表格的文件。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>You can draw and format tables quickly to take advantage of improved table flexibility, automatically wrap text around your tables, and create documents that contain floating tables.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>数据被传送到总线上并被正在接受的小型计算机所接收；或者当通信线路是菊花链时，每个相连的小型机可以把信息传给总线的下一分支，直到预期的接收机从链路上获得信息为止。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Data may be broadcast onto the bus and intercepted by the receiving mini, or, where the communication link is a daisy chain, each connecting mini may pass information on to the next leg of the bus until the intended recipient finally takes the message off the link, each of these interconnect schemes have their merits, depending on the application.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>波浪除非被海洋边界以某种方式消除或施加影响，否则它就会沿着其形成之时的风向继续移动很长距离。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Unless destroyed or influenced in some way or other by ocean boundaries, waves continue to travel for long distances in the direction that the wind was blowing when they formed.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>撇开原来与磨光有关的主要问题不谈，技术问题并不是最难解决的问题。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Despite initial major problem with grinding the technical problem were not the most difficult ones to solve.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>中子和质子组成原子核，而电子则围绕原子核旋转。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The neutrons and protons form the nucleus of the atom, around which the electrons moves.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>图中示出了连续加料对耗电量和电极消耗的影响，连续加料工艺不仅不再需要补充装料，而且也能在连续装料期间完成精炼操作。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The figure shows the effect of continuous charging on energy and electrode consumption, which not only eliminates the need for back charging, but also accomplishes refining during the continuous feed period.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>因为沥青或焦油是厂内生产的，其使用已经增加。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Because it is generated internally, the use of pitch or tar has increased.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当两种元素化合成两种以上化合物时，可和同样重量的一种元素的各个重量是成小整数比率的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When two elements combine into more than one compound, the different weights of one element which combines with the same weight of the other are in the radio of small integers.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>浓差电池</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>concentration cell</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>湿敏元件</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>dew cell</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>离子交换槽</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>exchanger cell</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>晶格晶胞</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>lattice cell</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>金相研究室</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>metallurgy cell</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>光电管</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>photoelectric cell</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>多单元法</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>poly cell approach</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>初基胞，原细胞</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>primitive cell</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>温差电偶</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>thermoelectric cell</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>载频放大器</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>carrier amplifier</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>载波信道</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>carrier channel</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>（汽车的）底盘框架</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>carrier frame</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>运载火箭</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>carrier rocket</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>移动齿轮</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>carrier wheel</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电荷载流子</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>charge carrier</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们要完全掌握集成电路工艺，必须采取三项措施。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There are three steps which must be taken before we graduate from the integrated circuit technology.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此方法的发明者所表现的远大目光和广阔知识，给人以十分良好的印象。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The foresight and coverage shown by the inventor of the process are most commendable.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>居里夫妇也成功地分离出第二个放射性元素—钋。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The Curies had also succeeded in isolating a second rayshooting element—polonium.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当把一根铜丝的两端连接到一个叫做电池的器件上时，就会有稳定的电流通过该铜丝。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When the ends of a copper wire are joined to a device called an electric cell a steady stream of electricity flows through the wire.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>小型发电机常常采用旋转电枢，而大型发电机通常采用固定电枢和旋转磁场。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>While small generations frequently have revolving armatures, large machines usually have stationary armatures and revolving fields.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>浓盐酸在电解时分解成氢和氯：氢沉积在阴极上，氯沉浸在阳极上，这样就使浓盐酸变稀了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Concentrated hydrochloric acid is decomposed by electrolysis into hydrogen deposited at the cathode and chlorine deposited at the anode, and so the acid becomes dilute.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>蓝牙</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>blue tooth</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>网络资源</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>cyber source</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>数据限制条件</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>data qualification</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>对话框</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>dialog box</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>高清晰度画面</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>high-definition pictures</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>最佳性价比系统</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>optimum price-to-performance system</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>数据送话机</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>dataphone</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>信息高速公路</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>information superhighway</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>线性感应马达</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>linear-induction motor</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>微波</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>microwave</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>纳米技术</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>nano-technology</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>路由器</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>router</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>软件</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>software</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>超导体</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>superconductor</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>试管婴儿</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>test-tube baby</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>汽轮机列车</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>turbotrain</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>吊锚，履带拖拉机</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>cat</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>旋塞，吊车</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>cock</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>挡块，止动爪</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>dog</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>接合板，夹板</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>fish</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>绳索</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>fox</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>支架，铁杆</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>horse</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>金属垫块</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>pig</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>斑点</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>snake</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>底座，机床身</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>bed</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>拉床，钳工台</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>bench</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>轴承盖，罩壳</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>cap</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>镀层</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>coat</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>皮碗，轴套</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>cup</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>控制屏</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>desk</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>闸瓦，履带片</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>shoe</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>箱体，罩</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>house</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>放料盘</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>table</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>机身</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>body</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>吊钩</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>ear</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>孔环</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>eye</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>厚薄规</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>finger</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>支座</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>foot</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>游丝</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>hair</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>手柄，指针</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>hand</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>冒口，刀架</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>head</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>开度</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>mouth</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>座</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>neck</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>喷嘴</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>nose</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>粗糙面</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>tooth</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>工字梁</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>H-beam</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>工字杆</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>H-post</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>工字钢</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>I-bar</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>O<ept i="1"/>型环</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>O-ring</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>T<ept i="1"/>字刀架</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>T-rest</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>T<ept i="1"/>恤衫</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>T-shirt</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>槽钢，<bpt i="1" type="1"/>U<ept i="1"/>型钢</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>U-steel</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>马蹄形磁铁</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>U-shaped magnet</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>三角皮带</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>V-belt</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>V<ept i="1"/>型切口</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>V-notch</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>交叉支撑</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>X-brace</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>十字钻头</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Cross-bit</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>麻花钻</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Twist drill</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>气压温度计</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>barothermograph</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>集成电路</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>IC, integrated circuit</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>音乐电视</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>MTV, music television</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>串联电路确实有这样的优点：在需要时用以增大电阻来减少电流。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Series circuits do have the advantage of increasing resistance to reduce current when this is desirable.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些实验研究即使没有给出其他结果，但却对相似法描述这类气流的能力和局限性给予了较高的评价。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>These experimental studies gave, if nothing else, a greater appreciation of the power and limitations of similarity methods in describing such flows.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些过程和环流有助于形成与图<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1<ept i="1"/>所示向类似的中尺度气压系统（即直径约为几百千米的系统）。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The processes and circulations are instrumental in the formation of mesoscale pressure similar to those shown in Fig.1 (i.e., with diameters on the order of several hundred kilometers).</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>激光是近年来最轰动的科学成就之一，因为它可以应用于许多科学领域，也适合各种实际用途。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Laser is one of the most sensational developments in recent years, because of its applicability to many fields of science and its adaptability to practical uses.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>像触屏式控制面板、大型电视终端、广角背景摄像机和文本摄像机这些功能。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Features like a touch-screen control panel, a large TV terminal, a wide-angled background camera, and a text camera are optional with some models of videoconferencing systems.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在电话上统某人交谈时可以看着对方的视频画面，这听上去是一个很不错的想法，但结果证明它在实践中一直未能普及。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Looking at a video picture of someone while talking to him or her on the phone sounds like a great idea, but in practice it’s never proved popular.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>万维网是一个基于超文本的因特网资源查询和访问系统；它是控制多媒体文件在因特网上创立及展示方式的一套程序、标准和协议。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The World Wide Web is a hypertext-based system for finding and accessing Internet resources; it is a set of programs, standards, and protocols governing the way in which multimedia files are created and displayed on the Internet.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>该产品的物理形态在某种程度上取决于干燥或焙烧的温度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The physical form of the product is dependent to a degree on the drying /calcination temperature.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>传统计算机中，<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1<ept i="1"/>比特由一个其状态编码不是<bpt i="2" type="2"/>1<ept i="2"/>就是<bpt i="3" type="3"/>0<ept i="3"/>的电路表示，该电路不存在任何中间值。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In a conventional computer, a bit is represented by a circuit whose state encodes either a 0 or a 1—there is no in-between.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>量子计算机的超强能力源于这个事实：如果你有一组量子比特组合，称为一个量子簇，其中每个量子比特都处于一种不确定状态，那么该量子簇便可同时表示其所有可能的数。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The amazing power of the quantum computer stems from the fact that is you have a collection of qubits—a register—in which each qubit is in an indeterminate state, then the register effectively represents all its possible numbers at once.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我知道他的父亲正在为美国的一所大学全力投身于这项研究工作。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>I know his father is dedicating himself to the research work at a university in America.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>因此，假设一台录像机被拔掉插头，网络就会尝试寻找另一台录像机，并指令其完成预设的节目录制任务，否则它便会告知用户它无法找到另外的录像机来完成录制。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>So if a VCR is unplugged, the network will try to find another VCR on the network and order it to take over the present recording of programmes, or it will tell the user it cannot find a VCR to carry out the taping.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>个人电脑可以像其他<bpt i="1" type="1"/>HAVi<ept i="1"/>设备一样在网络上使用，执行<bpt i="2" type="2"/>AV<ept i="2"/>功能时，电脑既可用来控制其他设备，亦可为其他设备所控制。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Your PC could also be used like any other HAVi device on the network, controlling other devices and being controlled by them when carrying out AV functions.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>假如给计算机提供可靠信息使之开始工作的话，它们便可给出准确结果。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Computers can yield accurate results providing that they are fed with reliable information to start with.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>两个十分有害的因素是温室效应和污染：前者使其后恶化，后者则破坏环境。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The two factors that are harmful are greenhouse effect and pollution:this destroys natural environmental and that worsens weather.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在现阶段，通过硬件通用协议和软件通用中介，<bpt i="1" type="1"/>HAVi<ept i="1"/>（家庭音频<bpt i="2" type="2"/>/<ept i="2"/>视频公用）功能可将不同的电子消费产品连接起来。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In its present form, HAVi (home audio/visual interoperability) allows you to connect a variety of consumer electronic devices using a common hardware protocol and common software middleware.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当您发现出现故障时，请立即停止操作。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Stop immediately when you recognize a problem exists.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>进一步操作可能会导致数据的丢失或损坏。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Further action may result in data loss or damage.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>您可能会损坏一些与故障相关的有价值的信息，而这些信息往往可以帮助排除故障。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>You may destroy valuable problem-related information that can help solve the problem.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>应养成经常保存文件的习惯。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>You should also get used to saving your work as often as possible.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>个人电脑一般不太稳定，所以进行视频编辑时就须加倍小心。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>PCs in general are not the most stable, and with video editing you have to be extra careful.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当今世界现存的个人电脑估计有<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1.5<ept i="1"/>亿台，而手表却又超过<bpt i="2" type="2"/>10<ept i="2"/>亿块之多。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>While there are an estimated 150m PCs in the world today, there are more than one billion watches.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种普及的状况说明，手表可能是未来便携式通讯的至关重要的平台。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This ubiquity could mark them as the key platform for future portable communications.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这样一来，每一种元素的原子的外层都具有两个易于失去的电子。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Each has, then, two electrons in the outer shell which it can readily lose.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些公司在互联网上都有自己的网站。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The companies have their web sites on the internet.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>“World 2000” <ept i="1"/>通过最新的通讯方式和协作途径增强了自身共享信息的能力。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>World 2000 has improved its ability to share information through the latest communication and new avenues for collaboration.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种纯平面屏幕技术可以消除屏幕表面的弯曲，从而达到高水平的聚焦效果，甚至令应用各种绘图软件的专业人士感到满意。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This flat screen technology eliminates curvature on the screen surface and so it achieves a high level of focus to please even professional users using graphic intensive applications.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>它只是在屏幕的边、角处有极小的闪烁和变形。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It has only minimal glare and distortion on edges and corners.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>而且，这种技术把单枪三色技术与纯平面技术结合起来，实现了真实、精确、清晰的效果。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Furthermore it combines “Trintron” technology with an absolute flat screen for realistic, precise and crystal-clear images.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>该结构式是从右写到左，还是从左写到右，或者各种原子以什么角度相互连接，是无关紧要的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is immaterial whether the formula be written from right to left, or left to right, or at what angle the various atoms are connected.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在分时系统，重要的是每隔一段时间便可分享使用中央处理器。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In a time-sharing system, it is very important for each user to get a share of the CPU at regular intervals.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人们认为镭的射线可以用来治疗各种疾病。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It has been thought that radium radiations might be useful in curing various diseases.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>业已证明，感应电压使电流的方向与产生电流的磁场力方向相反。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It has been proved that induced voltage causes a current to flow in opposition to the force producing it.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>它也使人们更容易参与其开发过程，也就是说，一个人即使不是专业编程人员，也可通过向开发小组提出改进建议而对某一软件施加极大的影响。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It also makes it easier for people to get involved in the development process, which means that even if some one is not a programme, he can have a great impact on a piece of software by suggesting how to improve it to the development team.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>约<bpt i="1" type="1"/>12<ept i="1"/>立方厘米的蒸汽是<bpt i="2" type="2"/>1<ept i="2"/>立方厘米的水加热后产生的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is about twelve cubic centimeters of steam that one cubic centimeter of water produces when heated.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当时我们所满意的是他们的优良服务。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It was their good service that I was satisfied with.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>决定猞猁繁衍旺盛与否的是猞猁栖息地的承受量而不是猞猁的胃部容量。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is the carrying capacity of the lynx’s habit, not the carrying capacity of the lynx’s stomach that determines the prosperity of lynxes.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>正是因为另一个星系距离我们数十亿千米，所以光从那个星系到达我们这里需要<bpt i="1" type="1"/>200<ept i="1"/>万年左右的时间。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is because the other galaxy is thousands of millions of kilometers from us that light from it reaches us after about 2 million years.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>看来这两个科学分支是相互依存、相互作用的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It seems that these two branches of science are mutually dependent and interacting.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这意味着所有的专业编程人员和用户不仅有权修改它，而且也可以访问源代码。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This means that all programmes and users can have access to the source code as well as the right to modify it.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这是一篇综述，是与氧化反应、还原反应以及在酸碱中和时引起配位状态变化的那些反应的用途有关系的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This is a review of the use of oxidation and reduction reactions and those involving changes in co-ordination states in neutralization between acids and bases.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电学上最常用的两个单位是安培和伏特：前者是电流单位，后者是电压单位。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The two units used most frequently in electricity are ampere and volt:this is the unit of voltage and that of current flow.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这个工作借助于我们的新技术就能很容易做到<bpt i="1" type="1"/>/<ept i="1"/>完成。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Such can be easily done with the aid of our new technology.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>另一种方法可以说是具有同样的效果。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The same can be said of the other method.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>次氯酸盐和次氯酸都是优良的漂白剂，并在工业上作为漂白剂加以使用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The hypochlorite and hypochlorous acid are both excellent bleaching agents and are used as such in the industries.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此闭路系统能保护操作工，使之不与液体接触，免受液体伤害。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The closed loop system protects the operator from liquid contact and hazard from the same.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>有些原子核会自发裂变，而另外一些则不会。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Some atomic nuclei undergo spontaneous disintegration while others do not.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>常数<bpt i="1" type="1"/>K<ept i="1"/>值不随某些因数而变。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The value of constant K does not change with some of the factors.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>所有物质都有不同的热容量，而水的热容量在所有物质中最大。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>All substances have different heat capacities, but water has one of the greatest of all.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种铁水罐的形状有点像鱼雷。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The iron ladle was shaped something like a torpedo.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>你的文件、日程表、通讯录以及你所需要的任何资料都会自动地复制到这些设备中，因为你所能想到的任何东西都能通连。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Your files, schedule, address book, and everything else you need will automatically be replicated onto each of these devices, because everything that you can think of will link.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>强度和韧性都比通过常规热处理获得的高得多。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Both strength and toughness were considerably improved over that obtained by conventional heat treatment.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于当代文化对电视的关注，视频作为一种艺术形式十分引人注目。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Video as an art form is something that catches the eye because of our culture’s absorption with television.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这钢的质量似乎不像上个月炼的钢那样好。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The steel doesn’t seem as god in quality as that made last month.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当前桥的速度大于后桥时，前轮的马达就把液压油泵向后轮上的马达。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The motors on the front wheels pump fluid to the rear-wheel motors when the speed of the front axle exceeds that of the rear.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们的新产品的市场竞争力将会大大强于那些过时产品。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The competitiveness of our new products in the markets will be much stronger than that of those out-of-date ones.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>管理工厂的工人通常比管理工厂的设备更难。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The management of the workers of a factory is usually more difficult than that of its equipment.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>他们厂里的设备似乎要比我们公司的设备更先进。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The equipment in their factory seems more advanced than that in our company.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当执行<bpt i="1" type="1"/>SWI<ept i="1"/>程序指令时，<bpt i="2" type="2"/>CPU<ept i="2"/>所要完成的中断过程与普通硬件中断所激发的过程相似，并且该程序会转移到中断服务程序。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When SWI is executed, the CPU goes through a similar interrupt sequence to that initiated by a normal hardware interrupt, and the program branches to an interrupt service routine.Conductors of electricity are of two kinds:</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>导电体可分为两类：（<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1<ept i="1"/>）传导电流而无须通过化学变化、只被电流加热的，例如金属和石墨就属于这类金属导体；（<bpt i="2" type="2"/>2<ept i="2"/>）为电流所分解而成为电解质的，如酸化水、盐溶液。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>(1) those which conduct the current without undergoing chemical change, and are simply heated by the current; metals and graphite belong to this class of metallic conductors; (2) those which are decomposed by the current, such as acidulated water, and solutions of salts, called electrolysis.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些机器在功能和效率上都要大大超过去年进口的机器。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>These machines are far more powerful and efficient than those imported last year.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于离子只出现在二电极上，最简单的方法是假设它们带有原子或根，离子的电荷符号与它被引向的电极的电荷符号相反。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Since the ions appear only at the electrodes it is simplest to assume that they are charged atoms or radicals, the sign of the charge of an ion being opposite to that of the electrode towards which it moves by attraction.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这条指令的作用与子程序的返回指令相同，它把主程序的状态恢复到<bpt i="1" type="1"/>CPU<ept i="1"/>中去，以便继续执行主程序。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This has an action similar to that of the return instruction of a subroutine, and causes the main program status to be restored to the CPU so that the main program continues execution.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种期刊的封面通常要比普通书籍的封面更加五彩缤纷。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The cover of the pictorial is usually more colorful than that of the ordinary book.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>互联技术的应用范围将从局部的光纤回路到卫星连接，提供了超过当今直接存储器存取通道的宽带。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Interconnect technology will range from local, fiber optics loops to satellite links providing bandwidths exceeding those of today’s direct memory access channels.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>麦制糕点的成本要低于米制糕点。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A cake made of wheat costs less than one made of rice.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这是具有极端重要性的职务。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The position is one of vital importance.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>而且，在多微机或多小型机环境中，为用户提供服务的复杂系统中部件的数量大于单台计算机系统部件的数量，甚至比具有大量使用更基础器件或部件的系统的部件的数量还要大。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Also, in a multimicro-or minicomputer environment, the number of complex system components involved in providing user service is larger than for a single computer system, even one having a large number of more elementary devices or components.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>只有一个能中断微机正常工作的装置的系统，是很简单的系统；该特定中断往往很容易得到服务。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A system with only one device which can interrupt the normal work of the microcomputer is a very simple one and the particular interrupt can be readily serviced.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这本书是每一位学英语的学生都需要的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This book is such a one as is needed by every student of English.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这机会太好了，不能错过。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The chance was too good a one to let pass.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这台装置显然要比那台装置更有效率。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This device is obviously more efficient than that one.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在这六种工序中，最基本的两道工序是澄清和过滤。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Of the half dozen processes, the two most basic ones are clarification and filtration.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这座新电站耗费的建设成本比早先建造的那座电站减少了<bpt i="1" type="1"/>80%<ept i="1"/>。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The new power station cost 80% less than the one built earlier.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>光速每秒<bpt i="1" type="1"/>186 300<ept i="1"/>英里。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Light travels 186,300 miles in a second.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>A4<ept i="1"/>型打印纸大小为<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>297<ept i="2"/>×<bpt i="3" type="3"/>210<ept i="3"/>毫米。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>A4 paper is 297<ept i="1"/>×<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>210mm.<ept i="2"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>纽约至洛杉矶走公路距离为<bpt i="1" type="1"/>22 915<ept i="1"/>英里。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>New York is 22,915 miles from Los Angeles by road.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当由阿留申群岛地震引起的波浪到达夏威夷群岛时，这些波浪在几处地方形成了高达<bpt i="1" type="1"/>6<ept i="1"/>米的快速移动的水墙冲上海岸。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>As the waves from the Aleutian earthquake hit the Hawaiian Islands, they were driven ashore in a few places as a rapidly moving wall of water up to 6 meters high.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>该报道称，外资企业出口了价值<bpt i="1" type="1"/>6.65<ept i="1"/>亿美元的商品，比<bpt i="2" type="2"/>1994<ept i="2"/>年上升了<bpt i="3" type="3"/>33%<ept i="3"/>。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Foreign-funded enterprises exported $665,000,000 worth of goods, up 33% over 1994, the report said.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在进行这种处理后，在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1983<ept i="1"/>年<bpt i="2" type="2"/>6<ept i="2"/>月第三周把棉花种子用手种上，行距为<bpt i="3" type="3"/>75<ept i="3"/>厘米，每块地种三行。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Following the treatment, cotton seeds were planted by hand in the third week of June 1983, at 75-cm row spacing with three rows of plants per plot.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>毛发的长度在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>0%<ept i="1"/>～<bpt i="2" type="2"/>100%<ept i="2"/>的相对湿度范围内发生约<bpt i="3" type="3"/>2.5%<ept i="3"/>左右的变化。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The length of hair changes by about 2.5% between 0% and 100% relative humidity.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>所分析的地面低压中心位于中气旋之东约<bpt i="1" type="1"/>8<ept i="1"/>千米处。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The analyzed low-pressure center at the surface was located some 8 km east of the mesocyclone.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>虽然地球离太阳约为<bpt i="1" type="1"/>93 000 000<ept i="1"/>英里，截获的能量不到太阳总辐射能量的二十亿分之一，但这一小部分能量总计起来却始终达到<bpt i="2" type="2"/>23<ept i="2"/>万亿马力。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Although the earth, approximately 93, 000, 000 miles distant, intercepts less than 1/2,000,000,000 part of the solar output, this fraction amounts continuously to 23, 000, 000, 000, 000 horsepower.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>中国是世界上最大的国家之一，拥有<bpt i="1" type="1"/>960<ept i="1"/>多万平方千米的国土面积。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>China is one of the largest countries in the world with a territory of more than 9,600,000 square kilometers.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>地球完成一次自传需要<bpt i="1" type="1"/>23<ept i="1"/>小时<bpt i="2" type="2"/>56<ept i="2"/>分钟<bpt i="3" type="3"/>4<ept i="3"/>秒多。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It takes 23 hours, 56 minutes and 4 and a fraction of a second for the earth to complete one rotation.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>去年中国的汽车产量增加了<bpt i="1" type="1"/>30<ept i="1"/>万辆。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The production of cars in China went up 300 thousand last year.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>米尔建立的模型预测，在下个世纪，即使温室气体保持在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>2000<ept i="1"/>年的水平，单单热膨胀就足以使海平面上升约<bpt i="2" type="2"/>11<ept i="2"/>厘米。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Meehl’s models predict that thermal expansion alone would make sea levels rise by about by about 11 centimeters over the next century.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>中国出口到美国的商品总值比去年上升了三分之二。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The total value of China's exports to the US rose by two thirds last year.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>与去年同期相比，国家第一季度的总采购量提高了<bpt i="1" type="1"/>5.2 <ept i="1"/>个百分点。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The total volume of state purchase in the first quarter has been raised by 5.2 percent, compared with the same period of last year.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>计算机模拟表明，在多烟雾的夏季，下午交通高峰期间每一辆汽车上的<bpt i="1" type="1"/>PremAir <ept i="1"/>会降低臭氧量十亿分之六至十亿分之八。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Computer models suggest that at rush hour on a smoggy summer afternoon, PremAir on every car could lower ozone levels by six to eight parts per billion.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>钢产量比去年增加了<bpt i="1" type="1"/>450<ept i="1"/>万吨。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There is an increase of 4.5 million tons of steel as compared with last year.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>型焦阶段的总碳比减少<bpt i="1" type="1"/>3%<ept i="1"/>，是由于型焦中氢含量较高，约为基准界段焦炭含氢量的三倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The decrease of 3% in the gross carbon rate during the formed coke period was attributable to the relatively high hydrogen content of the formed material, being about three times as great as that of the base period coke.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种新款手机拥有的功能比其旧型号多出了五种。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The new type of mobile phone has five more functions than its old model.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这所大学<bpt i="1" type="1"/>2004<ept i="1"/>年的科研经费预算比北京大学低了<bpt i="2" type="2"/>2000<ept i="2"/>万元。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The budget for research work expenditure of the university in 2004 is 20 million yuan lower than that of Beijing University.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>去年欧洲汽车的产量比<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1996<ept i="1"/>年下降了<bpt i="2" type="2"/>24%<ept i="2"/>。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The output of cars in Europe last year was 24 per cent less than in 1996.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>新的天线系统采用了延迟波原理，使天线高度降低到<bpt i="1" type="1"/>40%<ept i="1"/>。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The new antenna system uses a retarded wave principle that cuts antenna height to 40%.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这家钢厂的年钢产量已增加到<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1000<ept i="1"/>万吨。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The output of steel has increased to 10 million tons annually in this steel works.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>各种<bpt i="1" type="1"/>MP3<ept i="1"/>播放机的产量比<bpt i="2" type="2"/>2005<ept i="2"/>年增加了三倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The production of various MP3 players has been multiplied four times as against 2005.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>到<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1980<ept i="1"/>年，用浸出法生产的原铜产量预料会增长四倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>By 1980 the production of primary copper by leaching would be expected to increased fivefold.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些复合材料的弹性模数比单纯基体材料增大了一倍，而抗拉强度则增大了四倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The composites showed a two-fold increase in modulus of elasticity and a five-fold increase in tensile strength over that of the plain matrix.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>1974<ept i="1"/>年中国的煤产量比<bpt i="2" type="2"/>1949<ept i="2"/>年增加了<bpt i="3" type="3"/>9<ept i="3"/>倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In 1974, there was a ten times increase of China’s coal output as compared with 1949.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果两个不同电荷之间的距离缩短一半，则它们之间的吸引力的强度增加到原来的<bpt i="1" type="1"/>2<ept i="1"/>×<bpt i="2" type="2"/>2=4<ept i="2"/>倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The strength of the attraction between two unlike charges increases by 2×2=4times if the distance between the original charges is halved.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这家公司将其数控机床的产量增加了两倍，由两万台增加到六万台。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The corporation has increased its production of the digital machine tools by two times, from previous 200,000 to present 600,000.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>该速度超过平均速度<bpt i="1" type="1"/>2.2<ept i="1"/>倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The speed exceeded the average speed by a factor of 3.2.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种舰船的体积相当于<bpt i="1" type="1"/>Ticonderoga<ept i="1"/>级巡洋舰的<bpt i="2" type="2"/>4<ept i="2"/>倍，舰身长<bpt i="3" type="3"/>825<ept i="3"/>英尺，可携带<bpt i="4" type="4"/>512<ept i="4"/>个导弹发射筒。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This ship would be four times the size of a Ticonderoga-class cruiser and would carry 512 missile launch tubes in its 825-foot-long hull.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>各排积云的云间间距通常是其自身高度的大约两倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Often the distance between the rows is about twice their height.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些炸弹中的每一枚，其破坏威力都相当于当年投放在广岛的那枚炸弹的十倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Each of these bombs has ten times the destructive power of the bomb that was used on Hiroshima.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这个女婴的体重一年中增加了一倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The baby girl doubled its weight in a year.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>牲畜的数量今年增加了三倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The number of livestock has quadrupled this year.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>操作费用减少了三分之二。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The operation cost decreased three times.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>与双滤波器相干检波相比的主要优点是其宽带减少了五分之四。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The principal advantage over the dual filter coherent detection is a five-fold reduction in bandwidth.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>图<bpt i="1" type="1"/>2<ept i="1"/>的数据表明，各最大值中间最大的和最小的几乎成三与一之比。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The data in Fig.3 show a nearly three times difference in the highest values.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这条新设计的自动装配线能够缩短装配期十分之九。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This newly-designed automatic assembly line can shorten the assembling period by ten times.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>正在研制的设备很有可能会使误差概率减少到七分之一。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The equipment under development is more likely to reduce the error probability by a factor of 7.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>密歇根大学的化学家拉乌尔发明了一种只有一根头发丝的千分之一粗细的光纤探针。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Raoul Kopelman, a chemist at the University of Michigan, has invented a fiber-optic probe that is just one-thousandth the width of a human hair.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于这种天然气发电机不间断地燃烧，所以一氧化碳和碳氢化合物的排放量只相当于使用内燃发动机车辆的五十分之一。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Because the natural-gas generator burns fuel continuously, carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emissions would be one-fiftieth those of vehicles with internal-combustion engines.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这个热电站比那个热电站大三倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This thermal power plant is four times larger than that one.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一公斤铀所能产生的热能相当于燃烧一公斤煤所能产生的热能的近三百万倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>One kilogram of uranium gives nearly three million times as much heat as can be obtained by burning an equivalent amount of coal.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>待冷却气体的总热函也会减小到原来的五分之一到四分之一。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The total enthalpy of the gas to be cooled would be three to four times smaller.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种薄膜的厚度只及普通纸的三分之一。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This kind of film is twice thinner than ordinary paper.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种金属比那种金属轻三分之二。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This metal is three times as light as that one.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>汽车将采用陶瓷发动机，重量仅为钢制发动机的一半。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The cars will be driven by the ceramic engine twice as light as that of their steel counterparts.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在电子扫描时，波束宽度展宽一倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In case of electronic scanning the beamwidth is broader by a factor of two.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>总之，在免耕地条件下，春季作物对土壤含氮量的反应大约是常规耕作的两倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In summary, under zero till crop response to nitrogen levels in the spring was approximately twice as large compared to conventional till.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>声音在水中的传播速度几乎是在空气中传播速度的五倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In water sound travels nearly five times as fast as in air.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这大约是其实际约<bpt i="1" type="1"/>2.5<ept i="1"/>万英里周长的七分之二。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This is about two and one-half times less than the actual circumference of about 25,000 miles.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人们发现，从播撒过的单体云中降落到地面的雨量，是从未经播撒云中降落下来的三倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It was found that three times as much rain fell to the ground from seeded single clouds as from unseeded clouds.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>通过海底电缆以相当于当今通讯电缆四倍的速度传送信息，这家美国最大的电信公司超越了它的所有竞争对手，保持了它在信息高速公路上的领先地位。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The US’s largest telecommunications company has overtaken its rivals in the battle to keep ahead on the information superhighway by sending data down a sub-sea fiber optic cable four times faster than is usual on today’s commercial cables.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>他对这一天气事件的预报是完全成功的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>His forecast of the event is found entirely successful.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>根据《科学》杂志最近的报导，诺查丹玛大学的研究人员正在开发一种电路设计方法，它只需微量的初始电荷便可传输信息。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>As reported recently in Science, researchers at the University of Notre Dame are working on a method of building circuits that need only a tiny initial electrical charge to transfer information.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>但是，随着<bpt i="1" type="1"/>CPU<ept i="1"/>、随机存取存储器、特别是硬驱成本的降低，在家用电脑上制作高品质视频的梦想终于成为现实。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>But, finally, the lower costs of CPUs, RAM, and especially hard drives, have made the dream of good quality video on the home PC a reality.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>为了有效、安全而无烟地操作，二次空气的分布、数量、温度和速度必须足以确保适当的混合和温度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>For efficient, safe and smoke-free operation, the distribution, quantity, temperature and velocity of the secondary air must be adequate to insure proper mixing and temperature.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>用电解法生产氢的效率不像热化学法那样高。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The electrolytic process for producing hydrogen is not so efficient as the thermochemical process.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>淋巴，一种乳白色的流体，把人体各组织内的杂质和代谢废物带走，并穿越腺状结构；后者遍布在全身的淋巴系统内，起着过滤阀的作用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A milky white fluid called lymph carries impurities and waste away from the tissues and passes through gland-like structures spaced throughout the lymphatic system that act as filtering valves.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>钛是一种轻量、坚固而耐蚀的金属。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Titanium is a light, strong and corrosion-resistant metal.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>自动数字程序控制</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>programmed digital automatic control</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>最大理论密度</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>theoretical maximum density</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>低黏度润滑剂也表明其黏度对温度的依赖性不大。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Lubricants of low viscosity also exhibit a low temperature dependence of viscosity.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>不导电的橡胶、陶瓷和玻璃通常用来隔绝电流。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Non-conducting rubber, porcelain and glass are commonly used to resist electric current.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>便携式电器—例如电炉、电熨斗、或电热水器的布线，需要特别小心。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The wiring of portable appliances, such as electric fires, irons, or kettles, needs particular care.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种技术可用于开发体积微小、功能强大，依靠极少的电能就可以长时间工作的计算机。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This could result in the development of tiny, powerful computers that run for extended periods of time on little power.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>热能在辐射时，会转换成性质与光相似的辐射能。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In radiation, thermal energy is transformed into radiant energy, similar in nature to light.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>铝可以轧制成薄到几乎透明的箔片。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Aluminum may be rolled into foils so thin that they are almost transparent.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>你多半会随身携带某种出入卡，电子的或别的什么的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>You probably carry some kind of access card, electric or otherwise, that allows you in and out of your place of work.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>1997<ept i="1"/>年，<bpt i="2" type="2"/>Rezulin<ept i="2"/>（一种糖尿病治疗药物）获首次认可，各方官员及医务人员视其为“神奇炸弹”，其重要性足以使它能在美国食品与药物管理局新近制定的“快速治愈”条例下获得批准。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When initially approved in 1997, Rezulin was viewed by officials and physicians alike as a blockbuster drug important enough to be approved under the FDA’s newly instituted “fast-track” protocol.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>进行桌面视频编辑时，要确保关闭所有与计算机运行无关的程序。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When you’re working with your desktop video, make sure that you have disabled any programs that aren’t essential to the operation of your computer.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>大多数家用电脑用户均可进行基于计算机的非线性视频编辑，而且编辑出的效果有时会让周围的人吃惊。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Non-linear computer-based video editing is now feasible for most home computer users, and the results it produces can sometimes astonish those around you.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些马达功率大而且结构紧凑，但经过短时间试用发现，其噪音也相当大，这是液压传动系统过去一直普遍存在的问题。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The motors are both powerful and compact, but a short test drive reveals that they also are quite noisy, which has been a common problem with hydraulic drive systems in the past.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>每一个企业，无论其规模大小，技术含量高低，国有还是私营，都面临着如何在激烈的竞争中继续生存的问题。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Whether large or small, high-tech or low, public or private, every business will be faced with the issue of how to survive in the fierce competition.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>更新后的表格工具使绘制和编辑表格比以往更容易。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The updated table tool makes drawing and editing tables easier than before.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>植物和动物生活的平衡可保持空气中氧与二氧化碳的含量的恒定。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The balance of plant and animal life keeps the amounts of oxygen and carbon dioxide constant.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>家用电脑要有效处理高品质视频所要求的大量数据，唯一途径就是压缩。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The only way a home computer can effectively deal with the huge amounts of data required for good quality video is to compress it.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>该系统目前仍减少必要的电子控制装置，特别是用以平稳地控制制动力的装置。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The system still lacks the necessary electronic controls, particularly to control the braking force smoothly.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>资本主义从经济方面改造了社会。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Economically, capitalism has transformed societies.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>许多人可能会争辩道：与客户之间如此精确水准的沟通交流无论在商业上还是在技术层面上都是不可行的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Many people may argue that such a precise level of customer communication is not commercially viable or technically feasible.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>389VP<ept i="1"/>型传感器安装在带有氟化橡胶圆环的模压<bpt i="2" type="2"/>Tefzel<ept i="2"/>（<bpt i="3" type="3"/>r<ept i="3"/>）体内，从而使传感器既可免遭毁坏，又可耐受化学腐蚀。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Model 389VP is housed in a molded Tefzel(r) body with Viton O-rings, making each sensor virtually indestructible and chemically resistant.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>之所以能提高传输速度是由于采用了光学的而不是电子学的方法将信号加以放大。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The increased transmission speed was made possible by amplifying the signals optically rather than electronically.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>非常遗憾的是，光纤通讯系统在红外区内的工作波长通常都很长，长达<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1300<ept i="1"/>毫微米，而且发射这种波长的垂直腔激光器很难制造。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Very unfortunately, communications systems usually operate further into the infrared, at 1,300 nanometers, and vertical-cavity lasers that emit at this wavelength are hard to make.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>“连通性”这一词进入高科技词汇已有<bpt i="1" type="1"/>20<ept i="1"/>多年之久，这是十分惊人的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Amazingly, it has been more than 20 years since the concept of “convergence” entered the high-tech lexicon.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在标准情况下<bpt i="1" type="1"/>/<ept i="1"/>通常，头脑清醒的司机大约需<bpt i="2" type="2"/>400<ept i="2"/>毫秒就能做出反应；不过，一旦反应时间拖长到<bpt i="3" type="3"/>500<ept i="3"/>毫秒左右，就表明司机正在犯困。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Typically, a normally alert driver would take about 400 milliseconds to respond, but once that falls to about 500 milliseconds it suggests that the driver is getting sleepy.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一般说来，做兼职工作的人从事的都是地位低下、工资微薄的职业。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Generally, the part-timers work in low-status, low-wage occupations.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>简而言之，这些物质可以用分析方法加以鉴定。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Briefly, these substances can be identified analytically.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>大多数计算机使用者从未接受过正规的键盘技能训练。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Most computer users have never received any formal keyboard training.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>因而他们的键盘技术达不到要求。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Consequently, their keyboard skills are inefficient.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>相反，若别的什么人使用你的浏览器，它也不会有什么差异。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Conversely, if someone else were to use your browser, it couldn’t tell the difference.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>然而，这种发动机可能很快就可以经济合算地用于房车和船上。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The generator could soon be cost-effective enough to be used in motor homes, and boats, however.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>看来，某些洋区（如南印度洋）很少产生远高于<bpt i="1" type="1"/>13<ept i="1"/>米的波浪。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It appears that some ocean regions (e.g. the southern Indian Ocean) rarely produce waves much higher than 13 times.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>显然，润滑好的轴承，比未作润滑的轴承更容易转动。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is evident that a well lubricated bearing turns more easily than a dry one.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>异常温暖的海水所在海域可沿赤道向西长距离延伸，至少可远及坎顿岛。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The anomalously warm water can exist for a long distance along the equator at least as far west as Canton Island.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>水面的空气越接近饱和，水面上水的净损失速率就越缓慢。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The nearer the air above the water approaches saturation, the less rapid will be the net loss from water.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电磁波的传播速度和光速相同。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Electromagnetic waves travel at the same speed as light.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>垂直面发射型的激光器对于某些用途尤其具有吸引力，因为它们的光束比边缘发射型激光器的光束更为对称，聚焦也好。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>These surface-emitting lasers are particularly attractive for some applications because their beams are more symmetrical and more tightly focused than those from edge-emitting lasers.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>与氢相比较，氧的重量大约是它的十六倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Compared with hydrogen, oxygen is nearly 16 times as heavy.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>加拿大研究人员提出报告说，事实上，一套普通公寓尽管外墙少于普通住房，但其所耗能量与面积相似的单户人家住房所耗能量相等。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In fact, Canadian researchers report that an average apartment uses as much energy as a comparable-size single-family house, even though the apartment has fewer walls exposed to the outside.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>KH4<ept i="1"/>系列是最先送入轨道拍摄立体照片的照相机，这种立体照片比单个相机拍得图像所蕴含的有用信息要多得多。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The KH-4s were the first orbiting cameras to take stereoscopic photos, which contain far more useful information than single-camera images.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电磁波以广播传播。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Electromagnetic waves travel at the same speed as light.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>那辆新型小汽车一直在以最高车速飞驰，因而现在也不可能跑得更快了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The new type of car would run faster, if it could run faster than it has been running at its highest speed all the time.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>月亮从赤道以北<bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>28.5<ept i="1"/>°的位置运行到赤道南<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>28.5<ept i="2"/>°的位置。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>The moon moves from a position 28.5<ept i="1"/>°<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>north of the equator to as much south of it.<ept i="2"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>它越快达到这个温度，它就越早开始最有效地运行。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The quicker it reaches that temperature the sooner it begins operating at its most efficient.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>电解槽废气可用苛性溶液加以清洗。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The cell offgases may be scrubbed with caustic solution.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这时氯和氢氧化物起反应，产生次氯酸盐离子和氯离子。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The chlorine then reacts with the caustic to produce hypochloride ions and chloride ion.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种仪器很贵，使其应用受到了限制。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The expense of such an instrument has discouraged its use.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种车上配置了热能转换器来取代普通汽车上的散热器；而研究人员必须要解决的一个难题是，如何防止热能转换器结霜。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>One problem the researchers had to overcome was how to keep the heat exchanger, which resembles a car radiator, from frosting up.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>计算机能排定整套设备的操作时间表。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The computer schedules the operations of the whole plant.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此余隙可将形成“桥凝”的可能性减少到最低限度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This clearance minimizes the possibility of “bridging".</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>细粒氧化钍弥散体不仅由于奥洛万机理、而且由于亚结构能在较高温度下保持稳定而使钨得到强化。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A fine thria dispersion strengthens tungsten not only by the Orowan mechanism but also by stabilization of the substructure to higher temperature.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>它们在拉伸矫正机上对薄钢板进行矫直和应力消除。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>They strengthen and stress-relieve the steel sheets on the stretching machine.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>东芝公司设计的<bpt i="1" type="1"/>Tecra780<ept i="1"/>型电脑经久耐用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Toshiba designed the computer Tecra 780 for durability.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>液氮汽车的动力来自液氮温度在外部空气的作用下升高，超过其零下<bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>320<ept i="1"/>华氏度的沸点而气化时向外界释放的压力。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>The vehicle is driven by pressure released when cold liquid nitrogen is heated past its -320<ept i="1"/>°<bpt i="2" type="3"/>F boiling point by outside air and becomes a gas.<ept i="2"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>也可使两台以上的计算机一同运行，以改善其性能或提高系统的可靠性。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Two or more computers can also be operated together so that they can improve performance or system reliability.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>首先，应当选择能延长刀具寿命和获得良好表面光洁度的机械加工条件。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>First, machining condition should be selected which will give long tool life and good surface finish.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这只二极管的辐射功率约为那只的九倍。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This diode produces about nine times more radiant power than that one.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>噪声控制工程师现在可以使用的升学设备和振动测量设备种类繁多，令人眼花缭乱。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There is a bewildering variety of acoustics and vibration measurement equipment now available to the noise control engineer.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种新型的机器人能为人类干很多家务活，它们甚至能像人一样灵巧地扫地、擦洗地板。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This new type of robot can do a lot of housework for humans-they even can sweep and scrub as skillfully as humans.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果地轴不倾斜，地球上就不会有季节变化。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>If the earth’s axis did not tilt, there would be no seasonal change on it.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>假如你能把铜原子一个挨一个地排列起来的话，也许要一亿个才能排满一英寸的长度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>If you could make a row of copper atoms by placing one next to the other, you might need 100 million to cover an inch.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果当时不采取必要预防措施，这场台风就会造成更加严重的损害。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>If we had not taken necessary precautions, the typhoon would have inflicted more serious damage.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>而且汽车散热器部分地受到防护罩保护，使之免受这类气候要素的影响；假如将催化剂涂料涂敷在较为暴露的部位，如保险杠上，那么这些涂料就可能受到风雨的侵蚀。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>And the radiator is partially shielded from the elements, which might damage the catalyst were it more exposed, such as on a bumper.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>要是没有这些颠扑不破的定律，物理学就肯定不可能在任何漫长的岁月里作为一门精确的科学而存在。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Were there no such superior laws, physics would surely be impossible as an exact science over any sufficiently long period.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>假如电流切断，线圈就会返回到原来位置。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Should the current be cut, the coil would return to its original position.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>假如当时富兰克林关于闪电的知识与我们今天的认识一样，他可能就不会进行那种危险的风筝试验了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Had Franklin known what we know about lightning in those days, he probably would not have undertaken such a dangerous experiment.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>要不是由于他们共同的努力，他们本来是不可能在他们的科研工作中取得这样大的成就的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>But for their common effort, they could not have made such a great achievement in their scientific research.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种手表可以让使用者进入计算机系统并编辑数据资料，在屏幕上选择信息之后，间隔<bpt i="1" type="1"/>6<ept i="1"/>～<bpt i="2" type="2"/>12<ept i="2"/>英寸将表盘对着监视器就可将信息下载到手表内。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The wristwatch will allow users to enter and edit data on their PC and select information on the screen to download into the watch by holding its face 6 to 12 inches from the monitor.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人们希望温度的时间序列尽可能地长，以便能研究各种波的振荡周期。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The times series of temperature are expected to be the longest possible so as to examine various modes of oscillation periods.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>有些空气微粒，特别是较轻气体的原子，运动足够快，以致能从空气海洋中逃逸出来。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Some of the air particles, particularly the atoms of the lighter gases, travel fast enough to escape from the air ocean.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当信号作用到<bpt i="1" type="1"/>IRQ<ept i="1"/>（中断请求）引脚时，便时处理器进入一系列的中断操作。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When a signal is applied to IRQ, this causes the processor to go into an interrupt sequence of operations.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这使得<bpt i="1" type="1"/>CPU<ept i="1"/>能够跳出主程序并转入中断服务程序<bpt i="2" type="2"/>,<ept i="2"/>该程序或许会向打印机输出数据。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This enables CPU to jump out of the main program and go to an interrupt service routine, which perhaps outputs data to a printer.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>早春季节气温太低，不利于这些植物的生长发育，因此它们还必须留在温室中。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In early spring temperature is too slow to favor the growth and development of the plants so that they have to remain in the greenhouse.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>下大力气解决仍在困扰着肥料生产的经济问题和技术问题的时机已经到来。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The time has come to make great efforts to solve economic and technical problems still besetting fertilizer production.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>不用电缆或任何形式的连接，个人计算机竟能通过监视器传送信息。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>People find it hard to believe that there are no cables or connections of any kind and that a PC can transmit data through the monitor.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>尽管现在谈论这门强大的新型科技的出现最终将会产生何种影响可能还为时过早，但人们对于纳米技术及其影响所具有的兴趣却有增无减，因而对之倍加关注。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>While it may be too early to tell the ultimate impact of the emergence of the new and powerful technology, nanotechnology has clearly raised the interest and greater attention on both the technology and its consequences.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>对这一加热不平衡的动力学响应结果导致热在这沙漠地带的对流层上部汇聚。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The dynamic response to the heating imbalance is such as to converge heat into the upper troposphere of the desert regions.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>结构材料的选择应使其在外界条件中保持其弹性。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Materials to be used for structural purposes are chosen so as to behave elastically in the environmental conditions.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>为了确保反应进行得相当快，要求在少量液相和多得多的固相之间有最密切的接触。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>To ensure that the reaction progresses reasonably fast involves the closest contact between the small amount of liquid phase and the much larger bulk of solid phase.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>按照英国铜业发展协会（<bpt i="1" type="1"/>CDA<ept i="1"/>）的意思，铜合金的压力模铸费用迄今一直是高于铝和锌的，而在采用这项新技术后预期会降低<bpt i="2" type="2"/>25%<ept i="2"/>。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Up to now, copper alloys, according to CDA, have been more expensive to pressure diecast than aluminum and zinc, and a 25% reduction in the cost of pressure diecasting of copper alloys is expected with the new technique.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>静电发生器由两片将会逆向转动的玻璃组成。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>An electrostatic generator consists of two glass plates which are to revolve in opposite directions.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>上述操作规程必须严格遵守。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The operating instructions mentioned above are to be strictly observed.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种照相机胶卷不可在阳光下曝光。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The photographic film is not to be exposed to the sunlight.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>为了最大限度地利用热，有必要弄懂支配热传输的几条定律。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In order to utilize heat to the best advantage, it is necessary to know the laws that govern heat transfer.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>例如，糖尿病患者可以用这种小得令他们感觉不到的光纤探针来检测自己的血糖水平。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Diabetics, for example, could measure their blood-sugar levels with a fiber-optic “needle” that would be far too small for them to feel.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>聚合物链间有更多的横耦合链形成，从而使它更难被电子穿透。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>More cross-links are formed between the polymer chains, making it more difficult for electrons to penetrate.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在通讯系统中，电子学要解决的问题是如何把信息从一个地方传递到另一个地方。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In communications, the problem of electrons is how to convey information from one place to another.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>编程语言是以人为本的语言，用来指令计算机做什么以及怎样做。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Programming language is a human-oriented language used to tell a computer what to do and how to do.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果有关如何激励员工的培训能有效地实施，它就能导致某些显著的改进，这正是公司的目标的一部分。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>If the training on how to motivate employees is effectively done, it should lead to measurable improvements, part of company goal.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>西斯科公司的理念是听取客户的要求，考察所有技术方案，向客户提供广泛的选择范围。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Cisco’s philosophy is to listen to customer requests, monitor all technological alternatives, and provide customers with a range of options from which to choose.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>专家们必须要计算出卫星围绕月球运转的速度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The experts had to calculate at which speed for the satellite to travel around the moon.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>因为没有一台机器可以无摩擦地运转，所以克服摩擦力只是白费功夫。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>As no machine ever runs without some friction, overcoming the force wastes work.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>常用培土或覆盖其他材料的方法来遮护这些植株幼苗以防止其大量死亡。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Shading by heaping soil or other materials over the young plant is often practiced to prevent major losses.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>物质的冷却会导致其分子运动减慢。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Cooling matter causes the molecule to move more slowly.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>调整压力是没有用的，除非更换损坏了的零件。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is no use adjusting the pressure unless the damaged parts are replaced.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>天文学家并不认为在其他行星上寻找生命的证据是浪费时间。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Astronomers do not deem it a waste of time searching for life evidence on other planets.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>利用海水发电的可能性已经变为现实。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The possibility of sea water being used to generate electricity has come true.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这一新生技术涉及的结构制作，部分时间控制在纳米层面，而大多数时间则控制在原子层面。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This emerging technology involves structure elaboration with a control at nanometer level and most of the time at the atomic level.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>透镜可以是发散透镜或会聚透镜。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Lenses are either diverging or converging.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在所有这些反应中，我们都是用金属取代酸中的氢，从而生成了盐。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In all such reactions we have the hydrogen in the acid replaced by the metal to form a salt.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>基于零件数目和能源消耗的估计，分子大小的构件可以使将来的台式电脑功能远比现存所有的电脑功能的总和还要强大。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Based on estimates of parts count and power dissipation, components of molecular size could make desk-top computers of the future more powerful than computers in existence today combined.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>分子设计在进军纳米技术的征程中所取得的进步，很可能使这一趋势得以继续或加强，最终达到延年益寿的目的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Progress in molecular design on the path to nanotechnology is likely to continue and strengthen this trend, eventually allowing the retention of good health for a prolonged period.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>有机酸的稀水溶液会使蓝色石蕊试纸变红，受金属的作用时会放出氢，且会被金属的氢氧化物中和而生成盐类。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Dilute water solutions of organic acids color blue litmus red, evolve hydrogen when acted on by metals, and are neutralized by metallic hydroxides forming salts.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>洗涤以后的气流进入吸附反应器，在里面从下向上流动。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>After washing, the gas stream enters the adsorption reactors flowing from bottom to top.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在所有金属中，银是最好的导体，其次是铜和铝。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Of all metals, silver is the best conductor, followed by copper and aluminum.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于光传递得很快，它从太阳到达地球只需要八分钟多一点。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Traveling very fast, light from the sun takes a little more than eight minutes to reach the earth.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>燃料如果被燃烧，就放出热。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Burned, fuels give off heat.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>朝向不同的山坡收到的直接太阳辐射量是不同的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Slopes oriented differently receive direct solar radiation in different amounts.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>1<ept i="1"/>卡路里定义为在一个大气压力条件下使<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>1<ept i="2"/>克水温度增加<bpt i="3" type="3" x="3"/>1<ept i="3"/>℃（通常指从<bpt i="4" type="4" x="4"/>14.5<ept i="4"/>℃提高到<bpt i="5" type="5"/>15.5<ept i="5"/>℃）所需要的热量。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>A calorie is defined as the quantity of heat required at one atmosphere to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water through 1<ept i="1"/>℃<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>, usually from 14.5 <ept i="2"/>℃<bpt i="3" type="3" x="3"/> to 15.5<ept i="3"/>℃<bpt i="4" type="4" x="4"/>.<ept i="4"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>从对流单体降落的冷凝物的水平宽度比观测到的中尺度下沉气流的宽度小得多（前者<bpt i="1" type="1"/>60<ept i="1"/>千米而后者<bpt i="2" type="2"/>150<ept i="2"/>千米）。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The horizontal width of the condensate falling from the convective cells was much less than the width of the observed mesoscale downdraft (60km compared to 150km).</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>尽管如此，该展示在探索未来汽车燃料的高效率方面，为现在正处于研发阶段的电驱动系统提供了引人关注的选择。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Still, the demonstration offers an interesting alternating to the electric drive system being explored in the quest for high fuel efficiency in future vehicles.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>1<ept i="1"/>瓦的功率可以让<bpt i="2" type="2"/>1<ept i="2"/>安培的电流在电压为<bpt i="3" type="3"/>1<ept i="3"/>伏的回路中流动。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A current of one ampere will be kept flowing in a circuit by a watt of power under a pressure of one volt.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>从气流中分离其中所含酸性气体的方法，是使该气流与吸收酸的固体微粒接触，即让它同预先经过水处理并干燥了的霞石正常岩相接触。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>An acid gas component is separated from a stream of gas, through contact with acid absorbing solid particles, by contacting it with previously water-treated and dried nepheline-syenite.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些台站可以每隔<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1<ept i="1"/>小时或不到<bpt i="2" type="2"/>1<ept i="2"/>小时报告<bpt i="3" type="3"/>1<ept i="3"/>此天气以警告人们危险天气的临近。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>These stations may report weather at intervals of an hour or even less to warn of approaching weather dangers.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于电阻很大，电路中通过的电流很小。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The resistance being very high, the current in the circuit was low.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>振动着的物体产生声波，每一次振动产生一个声波。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Vibrating objects produce sound waves, each vibration producing one sound wave.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在其他条件相同时，海水的蒸发比淡水蒸发小大约<bpt i="1" type="1"/>5%<ept i="1"/>。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Evaporation from sea water is about 5% less than from fresh water, other conditions being the same.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>若多个装置连接至给定的中断线，而每个装置均有自己的中断服务程序。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When a number of devices are attached to a given interrupt line, each with its own servicing routine, then the peripheral responsible for the interrupt has to be identified.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>芯片上具有成千上万个相同的电路，每个电路能存储一个二进制位。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Chips have thousands of identical circuits, each one capable of storing one bit.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这儿是头两项检测的结果，第三项体检结果将在下周出来。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Here are the results of first two medical examinations, the third (being) to come out next week.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>若物体受到每个恒力的作用，则该物体就会做等加速运动。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The body with a constant force acting on it moves at constant acceleration.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>不过，由于肥胖症与心脏病以及其他严重疾病也有关联，与肥胖作斗争已成为生死攸关的问题。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>But with obesity also linked to heart disease and other serious ailments, fighting fat has become a matter of life or death.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一种物体即使无法看见其内部的运动也有可能是热的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>An object may be hot without the motion in it being visible.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种电缆在芯线外面包着两层绝缘材料。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In this cable there is two-layer insulation around the core wire.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>因此，同线性回归相比，这种对多元回归的需要看来是颇有道理的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Accordingly, the need for multiple regression as against linear regression appeared quite reasonable.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种技术具有足够的精密度和准确性，足以应用于动力工业领域。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The technique is of adequate precision and accuracy for use in the power industry.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>他们总是保持备用发电机组的完好状态。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>They always keep the emergency generating set in order.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种汽车的专业化部件现在仍处在研发阶段，其设计方案是，它可在气流穿过一个长如车体的圆锥形风“洞”之时获得能量。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>With its specialized components now at the development stage, the car is designed to gain power as its airflow passes through a wind cone “hole” which stretches the length of its body.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>阵风可以以超过每小时<bpt i="1" type="1"/>75<ept i="1"/>英里的速度从雷暴中吹出。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Gusty winds may blow out of a thunderstorm at speed in excess of 75 miles an hour.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>鉴于该高原对于广大地区的天气和气候的重要性，在数年前曾对之进行过一次科学考察。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In view of the importance of the plateau to the weather and climate over broad areas, a scientific investigation was carried out a few years ago.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>物体由于运动而具有的能量叫动能。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The energy possessed by an object by virtue of its motion is called kinetic energy, or energy of motion.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在海平面以上几千尺高度的范围内，气压递减率大约是每<bpt i="1" type="1"/>900<ept i="1"/>到<bpt i="2" type="2"/>1000<ept i="2"/>英尺高度下降<bpt i="3" type="3"/>1<ept i="3"/>英寸汞柱左右。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>For the first few thousand feet above sea level the rate of pressure decrease is in the neighborhood of 1 inch of pressure for each 900 to 1000 ft.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些优先权终端电路借助于可用处理器检查的<bpt i="1" type="1"/>3<ept i="1"/>位码，就可鉴别高达<bpt i="2" type="2"/>8<ept i="2"/>级的中断。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>These priority interrupt circuits identify up to 8 interrupt levels by means of a 3-bit code which can be inspected by the microprocessor.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>多级流床焙烧炉也很有可能将会很好地处理以浓缩矿浆或半干粉末形态给人反应器的某些精矿。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There is also a good possibility that multistage fluid bed roasters would work well on certain concentrates fed to the reactor as a thickened slurry or as a partially dried powder.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>失去控制的气压增长是这一爆炸的根本原因。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The pressure increase out of control was at the bottom of the explosion.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种机器据说能告知生意人他的朋友或客户是否在说谎。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The machines are supposed to tell the businessman, with a small margin of error, whether his friend or client is telling lies.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>英吉尔哈特公司的化学家们自然不会愿意谈论这种催化剂的确切成分。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Engelhard chemists are naturally reluctant to discuss the precise chemistry of their catalyst, beyond hinting that it uses platinum or platinum group elements such as palladium.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>银是已知的最好的导电体和导热体，并且其展性和延性仅次于金。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Silver is the best conductor of heat and electricity known and is next to gold in malleability and ductility.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这个系统由两个俯视的全景远程照相机组成，相机之间互相倾斜<bpt i="1" type="1"/>30<ept i="1"/>度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The system consisted of two downward-looking panoramic telephoto cameras tilted 30 degrees with respect to each other.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>矿物初始粒度的减小导致浸出表面积的增大和铜浸出率的相应提高。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Decreasing the initial mineral particle size gives rise to an increase in the surface area for leaching with a corresponding increase in the copper leached.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>而后，当光通过开口的一端浸入光纤时，融合的顶端就会发光，其亮度和色彩依据目标化学物质的浓度的不同而变化。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Afterward, when light is pumped through the open end of the fiber, the fused tip glows, its brightness and color varying according to the concentration of the target chemical.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在无云夜间，地面温度由于其热量散失到空间而下降。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In the cloudless night the ground temperature decreases on account of the heat lost to the space.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于被吸收而引起的强度减弱叫做阻尼，而由于这一原因其强度减小的波叫做阻尼波。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The decrease in intensity due to absorption is called damping and a wave whose intensity decreases for this reason is called a damped wave.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>随着机器缓慢升温，绝缘电阻通常会降低。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>With the machine warmed up slowly, the insulation resistance will normally be lower.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>所得结果仍然是无可争议的，因为用以测量从这些自爆裂原子核中射出的电子及α粒子的特性的物理方法是精确的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The results are nevertheless beyond dispute, thanks to the accuracy of the physical methods of measuring the characteristics of the electrons and alpha particles shot off from these spontaneously exploding nuclei.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>发电机是输入机械能，输出电能；而电动机是输入电能，输出机械能。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In a generator mechanical power is put in and electrical power is taken out, instead of electrical power going in and mechanical power coming out as in a motor.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在模型中，浮冰用一些塑料块来代表，这些塑料块具有与河流中浮冰快大致相同的密度和平均尺寸。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In the model, the floating ice was represented by pieces of plastic material, about the correct density and average size of floating blocks of ice in the river.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于芯片很小，故而蚀刻在芯片上的电路也很小，这样电信号就无需传送很远，因此它们传输得较快。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Because of the very small size of the chip, and consequently of the circuits etched on it, electrical signals do not have to travel far; hence, they are transmitted faster.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于在所有卫生保健服务方面在一定程度上较为明显地存在着一系列的问题，因而，作为结构系统对此类问题的响应，疾病管理的出现受到了欢迎。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Disease management is welcomed as a structured systems response to a set of problems that are evident to some degree in all health services.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>世界卫生组织的目标是经过各族人民的共同努力达到尽可能高的健康水平。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The objective of WHO is the attainment by all peoples of the highest possible level of health.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>于是，阀盒下面的压缩空气就会克服阀弹簧的拉力而打开阀盒。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The compressed air below the valve cage will then open it against the tension of valve spring.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这两项费用节省的优点都必须根据<bpt i="1" type="1"/>/<ept i="1"/>参照筛式废液分离机所需的额外投资来加以权衡。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Both these cost advantages must be weighted against the additional investment required for the screen effluent splitter.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>最近，自然资源加拿大组织和加拿大住房抵押建筑公司共同赞助高层公寓楼设计竞赛，要求新设计方案除具备其他一些特点外，还必须能提高能量效率以及楼内空气质量。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Recently, Natural Resources Canada and the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation jointly sponsored a contest that sough out high-rise department designs that promote energy efficiency and indoor air quality, among other attributes.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>根据功的原理，阻力与距离的乘积等于作用力与距离的乘积。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>From the principle of work, the product of the resistance times its distance equals the product of the effort times its distance.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当用氢氧化钠小心地使酯水解时，就形成乙酰乙酯。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>On careful hydrolysis of an ester with barium hydroxide the salt of acetoacetic acid is formed.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>上个月，<bpt i="1" type="1"/>AT&amp;T<ept i="1"/>公司用光脉冲的形式以每秒一百亿比特的速度，通过加勒比海海底长<bpt i="2" type="2"/>2000<ept i="2"/>千米的光纤电缆传输信息。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Last month At&amp;T sent the information as pulse of light at a rate of 10 billion bits per second over 2,000-kilometer stretch of cable under the Caribbean Sea.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>就大多数这类新型的网络电话而论，那意味着能够直接阅读和回复通过这种电话发来的电子邮件，而无须启动（甚至不必拥有）个人电脑。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>With most of these e-mail phones, that means being able to read and reply to electronic mail directly from the phone, without booting up (or even owning) a PC.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>尽管有了各种机械，干农活还是很累，耗时也很长。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>With all the help from the machines farming still requires hard work and long hours.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>50<ept i="1"/>万伏位差的情况下，芯线中一些带负电荷的电子被迫进入聚乙烯绝缘层并在那里滞留。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>With a difference of 500,000 volts, some of the negatively charged electrons in the core are forced into the polyethylene insulation, where they become trapped.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>多莉可能在它自己的时代来临之前就衰老了，但是又有一种新的克隆动物正将年轻不老延伸到极限。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Dolly may grow old before her time, but a new breed of clones are taking youth to extremes.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>垂直腔激光器不仅能提供聚焦更好的光束，而且其造价也应该比边缘发射型激光器更便宜。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>As well as providing more tightly focused beams, vertical cavity lasers should be cheaper to produce than edge-emitting devices.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>不仅克隆体细胞有较长的染色体端粒，而且在实验室里培育时，这些细胞分裂的次数要比非克隆体细胞多。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Not only do cells from the clones have long telomeres, but when grown in the lab they are able to divide more than non-cloned cells.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>钢在工业上得到广泛应用，因为它具有许多有用的性能。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Steel is widely used in industry because it possesses a great number of useful properties.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>其工作原理与照相机镜头在胶片上聚光而形成影像的原理完全相同。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It works in the same way that lens of a camera focuses light to create an image on film..</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在那种场合，除了汽车不能发动以外，还会发生什么事情呢？</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>At that point, what should happen except that the car wouldn’t start?</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>虽然关节炎症状在患者节食期间会得到改善，但一但恢复饮食，这些症状通常就会复归。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Although the symptoms of arthritis often improve while a patient is fasting, they usually return as soon as eating resumes.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这可通过屏蔽中断请求来实现；因此，尽管有中断请求，处理器可不予理睬。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This can be achieved by masking the interrupt so that, although an interrupt may arrive, the processor simply ignores it.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>需要高得多的温度，以便我们能把铁从固态变成液态。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A much higher temperature is required so that we could change iron from a solid state into liquid.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>铁制品常常涂以保护层以防生锈。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Iron products are often coated in case they should rust.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>万一全局处理机出了故障，其中一台本地处理机常可承担起全局处理机的功能。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Often, in case the global processor fails, one of the local processors may assume the function of the global processor.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>自从回旋加速器发明以来，已设计了许多其他类似的仪器。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Since the cyclotron was invented, many other similar instruments have been devised.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当它们在就绪队列中等待时，输入<bpt i="1" type="1"/>/<ept i="1"/>输出装置则空闲着。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>While they are waiting in the ready queue, the I/O devices are idle.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>所以，尽管低温动力汽车（以及电动汽车）属于零排放车型，但它们还是要依赖远在某处的发电厂提供能源支持，而发电厂往往是要排放污染物的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>So while cryogenic cars (and electric vehicles) have zero emissions, they rely on energy produced far away at emissions-generating power plants.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一些胎儿是经体外受精并进过培育后移植的，而另一些则是经由人工授精获得的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Some are produced by IVF and cultured before being implanted, while others were conceived by artificial insemination.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>随着台风的临近，气压开始下降。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The air pressure begins falling accordingly as a typhoon comes near.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>不久铝箔本身就开始受到了更加大得多的关注，因为用户对其质量要求逐年提高了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Soon aluminum foil itself started to receive much more attention as customers’ demand on quality increased year by year.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>淋巴不能像许也那样循环，因此其运动很大程度上依赖肌肉收缩的挤压作用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The lymph does not circulate as the blood does, so its movement depends largely on the squeezing effect of muscle contractions.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>的确，在多次旨在对实际的针灸疗法和模拟的针灸疗法进行比较的测试中，接受模拟治疗者通常可获得与接受实际治疗者相同的止痛效果。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Indeed, in tests comparing genuine acupuncture with an imitation, patients receiving the fake treatment usually enjoy about as much relief (50 percent) as those given the real thing.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>该风场的扰动虽然很弱，但还是可以看得出来。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Weak as it is, the disturbance in the wind field is discernible.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果这一信息没有送到那么天然的食欲抑制素就不会产生，体重也不会停止增长。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When the message isn’t sent, there’s no natural appetite suppressant—and no end to weight gain.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>其他人员推测，素食饮食可能改变了大肠内的菌群，以某种方式缓解了疾病。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Others speculate that a vegetarian diet may alter the bacterial population in the large intestine, somehow relieving the disease.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>但是，医生们仍在争论该类疗法是否比安慰剂疗法（模拟治疗而非实际治疗）更有效。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>However, doctors are still debating whether this type of therapy has nay effect beyond that of a placebo (a fake treatment with no real activity).</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>推拿以镇静或刺激的方式来保持神经系统平衡，采取哪种方式取决于在推拿之时个人需要达到哪种效果。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Massage balances the nervous system by soothing and stimulating it, depending on which effect is needed by the individual at the time of the massage.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>每个人都知道，人类生活对石油依赖到什么程度：石油是那种神奇的液体—汽油—的来源，正是汽油使汽车能够开动行驶。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Everyone realizes to what extent the world is dependent on petroleum as the source of that magical fluid, gasoline, which has made the automobile possible to drive.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人们感到奇怪的是，为什么硬的金刚石会变成软的石墨，或者，为什么食盐溶于水而金刚石却不溶于水。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>One wonders why a hard diamond can be converted into soft graphite or why table salt dissolves in water and diamonds do not.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>进一步的试验有可能表明，湿法炼铜方法是否能够和何时才能变为在经济上对炼铜者有吸引力的替代方案。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Further tests may indicate whether and when hydro-metallurgical processes could become economically attractive alternatives for copper producers.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>真正令人吃惊的是我们不仅能从处于生命末期的牛的细胞克隆出健康的牛犊，而且这些克隆动物的细胞明显比它们的实际年龄更年轻。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>What is really surprising is not only were we able to clone healthy calves from cells at the end of their lifespan, but the “cloned” animals had cells that appear to be younger than their chronological age.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此外，神经键中那些分解多巴胺（<bpt i="1" type="1"/>MAO-B<ept i="1"/>）的化学物质继续消耗所剩无几的多巴胺。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Also, the chemical in the synapse that breaks down the dopamine (MAO-B) continues to deplete what little dopamine is left.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>要想了解推拿疗法的治病原理，有必要先简要探讨推拿的某些生理学作用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>To understand how massage therapy works, some of the physiological effects of massage need to be briefly examined.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>因而一个由专家组成的小分队成立了，并时刻待命，随时准备在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>24<ept i="1"/>小时之内奔赴疾病突发区。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This is why a team of experts has been formed and is on standby, ready to rush to the site of an outbreak within 24 hours.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>然而，两种方法有着共同的缺陷：即反弹—一旦停止禁食，你禁食期间减掉的重量无论有多少通常都会恢复原状。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Both approaches, however, have one major drawback in common:whatever weight you shed during the fast usually returns once it ends.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>发电机所产生的电流是通过粗铜线从发电厂输送到任何需要它的地方。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The electric current from the generations is taken through thick copper wires from the power station to wherever it is needed.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>临界压力就是能在临界温度下使气体变为液体的最小压力。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Critical pressure is the smallest amount of pressure that can make a gas at critical temperature into a liquid.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>但是这些研究结果应当给那些正在考虑培育胚胎以改善受孕机会的人类生育研究者们以警告。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>But the result should serve as a warning to human fertility researchers who are considering culturing embryos to improve chances of achieving pregnancy.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>镀铬的表面，诸如我们很熟悉的汽车部件和卫生设备的那种表面，具有很高的光洁度，而不易变色或产生痕迹。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A chrome-plated surface, such as that which we are familiar in automobile parts and plumbing fixtures, takes a high polish that is not easily tarnished or scratched.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>聚丁烯也具有聚烯烃可能具有的高的耐强酸强健腐蚀性。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The polybutylene also has high resistance to corrosive attack by strong acids and bases as is expected for the polylefine.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>同是臭氧，在平流层挡紫外线，对人是有益的；但在地面，被人吸入就会对人的呼吸系统产生严重伤害。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The same ozone that helpfully blocks ultraviolet light in the stratosphere can seriously damage your respiratory system when it is at ground level where it can be inhaled.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>为什么长途输电时交流电优于直流电，还有一个理由。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There is another reason why A.C. is preferred to D.C. for long-distance transmission.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>目前气体（还原）法正在飞速发展，并且取得了巨大成功。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>At present the gaseous processes are rapidly developing and are most successful.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这与三年前所预料的相反<bpt i="1" type="1"/>,<ept i="1"/>当时<bpt i="2" type="2"/>SL/RN<ept i="2"/>固体燃料（还原）法似乎最可能迅速取得成功。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This is contrary to what was expected three years ago when the solid fuel process SL/RN seemed the most likely to take off quickly.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在熔化完毕后将钢水移到另一容器中进行精炼。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>After melting is completed the steel is transferred to a separate vessel where refining is carried out.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>营养不良一遇机会便会引发感染并造成非脂肪组织（统称为<bpt i="1" type="1"/>LBM<ept i="1"/>）严重缺失。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Malnutrition invites opportunistic infections and contributes to wasting, severe loss of nonfatty tissues (collectively referred to as lean body mass, or LBM).</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在阅读有关“帕金森氏病”及其治疗的内容之前，多了解一点人体运动的控制原理或许会有帮助。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Before reading about Parkinson’s disease and its treatment, it may probably be helpful to understand a little more about how the movement of your body is controlled.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>从这个对比表格中可以很明显地看出，在硬件成本达到大型机成本之前，可以使用为数颇多的小型机。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is quite obvious from this comparison chart that quite a few minis can be used before the hardware cost will equal that of a large computer.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>就耐火材料的工作性能而言，旋转水口系统和直向滑动水口相比，其主要优点似乎是不言而喻的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>As far as refractory’s performance is concerned, the main advantages of the rotary nozzle system over the straight sliding gate would appear to be self-evident.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>内轴承圈完全支撑在轴上，折旧要求轴的锥度与内圈镗口的锥度精确吻合。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Full inner ring support on the shaft requires exact coincidence of shaft taper and bore taper of inner ring.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>关于紫外辐射使聚合物降解的精确路线或机理，这一领域的专家对它是有分歧的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The exact route or mechanism of polymer degradation by ultraviolet radiations is not agreed upon by experts in the field.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>概述了情报中心有关活动对计算设备的影响的预测，它表明计算设备的用量随着情报中心的迅速增多而急剧增大。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Projecting the impact of information center related activities on computing resources is outlined, showing that the consumption of computing resources grows rapidly with the proliferation in the number of computing centers.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>对于生产钢铁用的贫矿石，我们必须在将其喂入高炉之前小心地加以处理。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>We must carefully process the lean iron ores we use to produce iron and steel before they are fed to the blast furnace.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>防止或至少延迟金属氧化的倾向这件事使全世界耗费了巨额金钱。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>To prevent or, at least, to retard the tendency of metals to oxidize costs the world immense sum of money.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们必须让现场工程师能够自由地运用他们个人的才智去追求自己的理想。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>We must allow engineers on the spot freedom to apply their personal resources to pursue their ideals.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>目前另外两个令人感兴趣的领域的研究也正在进行之中。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Two other intriguing areas are currently under research.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一个是利用针灸戒除毒瘾和酒瘾；针灸，特别是对外耳处的针灸，被应用于美国的许多戒毒所。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>One is the use of acupuncture in easing withdrawal from the addiction to hard drugs and alcohol; acupuncture, especially of the outer ear, is available at many detoxification clinics in the United States.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>另一个是针灸疗法有可能促进中风的康复及减少中风引起的损伤。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Another possibility is that acupuncture therapy may speed rehabilitation and limit damage after a paralyzing stroke.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>硅酸钠的溶液可用来使木料和织物耐火，并可用作玻璃和陶器的黏合剂。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A solution of sodium silicate is used to render wood or cloth fireproof, and as a cement for glass and pottery.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>他的目标是让这辆电动汽车能利用经过通宵充电的电池行驶<bpt i="1" type="1"/>300<ept i="1"/>英里距离。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>He aims to have the electric car running with a range of 300 miles on each overnight battery charge.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>所介绍的优化技术考虑了操作要求、寿命成本、可靠性和可维护性、环境约束、性能要求等。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The optimization techniques presented take into account operational requirements, life-cycle cost, reliability and maintainability, environmental constraints, performance requirements, etc.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>汞弧整流器中电流的这种流动成为电弧，并使汞蒸气发出强烈的紫光。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This flow of current in a mercury-vapor rectifier is called an electric arc, and causes the mercury vapor to glow with an intense purple light.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>使用共享内存互连法的多微机或多小型机系统称为“紧耦合”系统。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Multimicro-and minicomputer systems, which employ the shared-memory interconnect approach, have been coined “tightly coupled”.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>多莉看起来正常而健康，但去年的研究发现它的染色体端粒异乎寻常的短。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Dolly appears normal and healthy, but in last year’s study her telomeres were found to be unusually short.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在一个时期，表层和次表层的水流方向相反；表层水流向外海方向流动，靠近底层的水流则向陆地方向流动。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>For a time, surface and subsurface current rate in opposite directions; flow is seaward at the surface and landward near the bottom.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>实际上，即使太老的、无法在实验室里继续分裂的非克隆细胞也依旧能产生健康的、“年轻的”克隆体；显然，克隆有可能是一个返老还童的过程。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In fact, non-cloned cells that were too old to continue dividing in the lab were still able to produce healthy, “young” clones; apparently, cloning can be rejuvenating process.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>显然，这与克隆技术以及所采用的供体细胞有关。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Clearly it has to do with the cloning technique and the donor cell used.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>对<bpt i="1" type="1"/>620CC<ept i="1"/>和<bpt i="2" type="2"/>800<ept i="2"/>系列压缩泵说来，在整个泵送周期内，所泵送的产品始终保持在平滑的泵送管内，因此消除了稀释或交叉感染的风险。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In the 620CC and 800 Series of depressing pumps, pumped product remains within smooth pump tube throughout entire pumping cycle, thereby eliminating any risk of dilution or cross contamination.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>Rezulin<ept i="1"/>面市前的试验过程明显地检测出一些由它导致的肝异常症状，但发病率之低并不足以制止概要的批准与上市。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Some liver abnormalities were apparently detected during Rezulin’s pre-marketing testing, but not in sufficient frequency to halt its approval and release.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>从反射表面弹回的光波称为反射射线。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The light wave that has bounced off the reflecting surface is called the reflected ray.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于食品与药物管理局在两次不同的场合的督促，药物包装标签上增添了对医生的警告，建议他们对患者反复多次验血，并且仅限于采用其他药物无效的患者服用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Warnings to physicians were added to the package label at the behest of the FDA on two occasions, advising physicians to utilize more frequent blood testing, and then restricting its use to those who did not benefit from other medications.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>另外，对神经受体的刺激使得血管（通过反射作用）扩张，从而有利于血液流动。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Also, the stimulation of nerve receptors causes the blood vessels (by reflex action) to dilate, which also facilitate blood flow.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>它们是强腐蚀流体（计量应用）的理想计量泵。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>They are ideal for applications with aggressive fluids that require metering.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>然而，已经有不少办法可有助于控制帕金森氏症患者脑神经细胞功能的逐步下降。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>However, there are several methods that can help to manage the slow decline in function that occurs with Parkinson’s disease.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>不饱和烃显然很高的烃却不能参与加成反应。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The failure of an apparently highly unsaturated hydrocarbon to enter into addition reactions is indeed surprising.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>使轴转动（所需要的）力取决于臂长。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The force required to turn a shaft depends on the length of the lever used.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>三合土是消石灰和砂的混合物，可用来在房屋、墙壁等的砌筑中把砖或石头年节在一起。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Mortar is a mixture of slaked lime and sand used for holding together bricks and stone in the construction of buildings, walls, etc.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人体对安全带的拉力传给了负载限制器，而该限制器是由一些设计成能被拉开的钢带组成的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The strain of the body on the belt is transmitted to a load limiter comprising a block formed from strips of steel designed to tear apart.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>本研究的目的是借助于适当的技术，定性和定量地测定铝合金中的金属间化合物，以确立在日常研究工作中快速鉴定这些化合物的方法。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The aim of the present work is to determine the intermetallic compounds in some aluminum alloys qualitatively and quantitatively and by means of a suitably chosen technique to establish ways for rapid identification of these compounds in routine investigations.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>脱气器配置在电解槽外部靠近电解槽的地方。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The degasifier is disposed outside of, but close to the electrolytic cell.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>他的想法是用两个电动马达来驱动一辆充电电池汽车，每个前轮安装一个，而位于车体下方的强力空气涡轮发电机则在汽车行驶中不断给蓄电池充电。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>His idea is a battery car driven by two electric motors, one at each front wheel, with a powerful under-floor air-driven turbine alternator recharging batteries on the move.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>伏打电池的电荷是以电子的形式存在于电池材料中。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The electrical charges of a voltaic cell are present in the materials of the cell in the form of electrons.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>对氯化钠溶液而言，可以假定：通过第一次作用（即电解的直接作用）首先沉积在阴极的钠，会立即通过第二次作用（即与电解无关的作用）与水反应，形成氢氧化钠溶液而放出氢气。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>With a solution of sodium chloride it may be supposed that the sodium first deposited on the cathode by a primary action (i.e. as a direct result of electrolysis) at once reacts with the water by secondary action (i.e. one not involving electrolysis), forming a solution of sodium hydroxide and liberating hydrogen gas.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>通常，软件工程的生产率（每个人的产量）与参与项目的人员数量呈反比（参与人员越多，则单个程序员的软件产出率越低），这主要是由于为准确而可靠地交换与正在研发的软件系统有关的信息所要求的开销不断增大。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>As a rule, productivity (production per person) in software engineering varies inversely with the size of a project work force (the larger the work force, the less productive is the individual programmer), due principally to the increasing overhead required to communicate information accurately and reliably concerning the system under development.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种剧毒的化合物必须非常小心稳妥地加以存放。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This severely toxic chemical compound must be kept very carefully in a proper way.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此工艺过程所产生的压力为<bpt i="1" type="1"/>700<ept i="1"/>磅<bpt i="2" type="2"/>/<ept i="2"/>英寸<bpt i="3" type="3"/>2<ept i="3"/>（<bpt i="4" type="4"/>50<ept i="4"/>巴）的蒸汽可用以驱动空气压缩机。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Steam generated by the process at 700 psi (50 bars) is used to drive the air compressor.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>针灸过程中的“针刺”指的是将多根极细的银针插入体表的某些特定穴位。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The “puncture” in acupuncture refers to the operation of inserting tiny needles at certain very specific points on the surface of the body.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>它可以通过用水洗涤后再予以蒸馏的方法加以净化。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is purified by washing with water and then distilling.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>上面所写出的第二个反应的产物是碳酸的二乙基酯，即碳酸二乙酯。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Product of the second reaction written above is the diethyl ester of carbonic acid, ethyl carbonate.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>能够启动或停止某一电路中的电流，例如，将手电筒电珠哦电流接通或断开，是很有用的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is useful to be able to start and stop the current in an electric circuit, for example, to turn a torch bulb on and off.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>导电聚合物—能够导电的塑料—即将实现技术上的突破。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Conducting polymers—plastics that conduct electricity—are on the verge of a technological breakthrough.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>触觉传感研究人员与视觉传感领域的同行们一样，正在着力解决相同的问题：如何立即分析所获取的数据。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Researchers in tactile sensing are now grappling with the same problem as are their colleagues in visual sensing:</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>铝工业和球墨铸铁工业（将镁用作合金成分的主要用户）的任何波动，都对镁生产厂家的命运具有直接影响。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>analyzing the data once it is obtained.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>用空气将乙烯这种易于获得而且比较便宜的材料氧化成各种产品，在工业上具有极其重要的意义。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Any fluctuations in the aluminum and nodular cast iron industries, the principal consumers of magnesium for alloying purposes, have a direct influence on the fortune of the magnesium products.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>作为日益繁荣的<bpt i="1" type="1"/>21<ept i="1"/>世纪新兴产业，<bpt i="2" type="2"/>IT<ept i="2"/>产业在许多国家甚至像中国、印度这样的发展中国家一直在迅猛地发展中。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The oxidation of ethylene, a readily available and relatively cheap material, to various products by air is of great industrial significance.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>世界卫生组织作为联合国一个拥有<bpt i="1" type="1"/>191<ept i="1"/>个成员国的特殊机构，在各国之间增进卫生技术合作、执行控制和根除疾病的各种计划，为改善人类的生活质量而努力奋斗。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>An increasingly prosperous new industry in 21<bpt i="1" type="2"/>st<ept i="1"/> century, the IT industry has been rapidly developing in many countries, even in some developing countries like China and India.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>能量既不能被创造也不能被消灭，这是一条普遍公认的法则。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A specialized agency of the United Nations with 191 member states, WHO promotes technical cooperation for health among nations, carries out programs to control and eradicate disease and strives to improve the quality of human life.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些纳米管实际上是一些被拉长的分子。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Energy can neither be created nor destroyed, a universally accepted law.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在这样的高度上，台站地形所造成的局地影响预期可以大幅减小到最低限度；这种假设似乎主要在空气充分流通的相当开阔的地区证明有理。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>At these levels the local influence of station exposure is expected to be greatly minimized, an assumption which seems justified mainly in cases of rather open locations that permit sufficient air circulation.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当他们设法让聚乙炔膜与碘蒸气起反应时，其导电性呈千万倍的增加；这一发现最终使他们获得了诺贝尔化学奖。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When they caused the polyacetylene films to react with iodine vapor, the conductivity increased by as much as ten million tines—a discovery that was eventually to give them a Nobel Prize in Chemistry.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>碳酸盐能够通过往碳酸的水溶液中添加强碱的方法予以制备。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The salts of carbonic acid, the carbonates, can be prepared by adding alkali to such aqueous solutions.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>据我看来，这台旧机器应当换一台新的了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This old machine, as it appears to me, should be replaced by a new one.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>但正如人们所料，这种酸是不可能通过将硅石溶解于水中形成的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>But this acid cannot be formed, as might be expected, by dissolving silica in water.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>少量的铜化合物对于每一种植物或动物—当然也对于人类自身—的生存和健康是必不可少的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Copper compounds are, in small quantities, essential for the life and health of every plant and animal and, of course, to man himself.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种新系统价钱比较便宜，更为重要的是<bpt i="1" type="1"/>/<ept i="1"/>况且，它的质量较好。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The new system is cheaper, and what’s more, it’s better.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当把少量水喷洒到一块生石灰时，就会有热量生成—这可由放出的蒸汽来证明—而石灰则碎裂成白粉即氢氧化钙。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When a piece of quicklime is sprinkled with a little water, heat is produced, as is shown by the steam given off, and the lime crumbled to a white powder, calcium hydroxide.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>水泥、木料和钢材是最广泛使用的建筑材料。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Cement, wood and steel are the most widely used building materials.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>不存在严重的温度控制问题。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There is no serious problem of controlling the temperature.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这样一些洋流流向的形成、消失或改变可以在大约几个小时或几天内发生。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Such currents may form, disappear, or change flow direction within a matter of hours or days.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>潮流可引起各层海水之间发生混合，所以水体只能有一种适度的分层。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Tidal currents cause mixing between layers, so that the waters become only moderately stratified.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在施工过程中，常会出现需要改变设计的问题。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>During construction, problems often arise which require design changes.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>Twister VSB <ept i="1"/>型干螺旋真空泵用于溶剂回收和化学处理过程，具有低温、干燥和环境友好的特点。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Twister VSB dry screw vacuum pump is a cool, dry, environmentally friendly solution for solvent recovery and chemical processing applications.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>即使在这样一个系统中，近乎相同的两初始状态有时也会于一周之后在总体统计上发生差异。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Even in such a system, gross statistical divergence of two nearly identical initial states will occur, sometimes in a week.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>观测进行时期为一个月差两天。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The observation was carried out one month less two days.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此飞机的设计速度为<bpt i="1" type="1"/>800<ept i="1"/>千米<bpt i="2" type="2"/>/<ept i="2"/>小时。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The aircraft has been designed to fly at 800 kilometers per hour.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>图<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1<ept i="1"/>是阐明分馏法的流程图。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The flow sheet shown in Fig.1 is intended to illustrate the process of fractionation by distillation.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一片放在阳光下的金属，其温度要上升到它吸收热量和失去热量的速率相等时才停止。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A piece of metal left in the sun rises in temperature until it loses heat at he same rate at which it absorbs heat.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在第一阶段急流远在其北且一般为由由西向东的方向。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In the first stage the jet stream lies well to the north and it takes a general west-east direction.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在这一阶段，海平面上西风气流很强且属纬向性的，它们比正常位置偏向了极地。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>At this stage sea-level westerlies are strong and zonal in character and they lie poleward of their normal position.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>碳与氢之间的双键可防止自由转动，而能否生成两种立体异构体则取决于羟基和氢原子是否相互叠置。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The double linkage between carbon and hydrogen prevents free rotation and two stereoisomers are possible depending on whether or not the hydroxyl group and hydrogen atom are over each other.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>喷洒在空气中产生小水滴，它们使热辐射减小，但是喷洒一停止，植物本身温度就立刻下降。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Sprinkling creates water particles in the air that reduce outgoing radiation, but plant temperature declines immediately on cessation of the operation.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>部分原因是液体的表面张力所产生的破坏力，所以用超临界二氧化碳代替这种液体有助于防止这种问题出现。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The forces exerted by liquid surface tension are partly to blame, so replacing the liquid with supercritical carbon dioxide helps to prevent the problem.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>输出功率绝不可能等于输入功率，因为总有损耗。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The output power can never equal the input power, for there are always losses.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我想可能存在某些维持染色体端粒的物质，但寿命的延长确实出乎我们的意料。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>I thought it might be possible that there would be some maintenance of telomeres, but that we see extension is unexpected.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>隔多久进行一次观测，这些观测的站点彼此相距多远，取决于想要获得其资料的大气事件的规模。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>How often observations are made, and how widely they are spaced, depend on the scale of the atmospheric events about which information is desired.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>据人们所知，当地天气在几天内可以受到几千英里以外的气象条件的影响。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is known that local weather can be affected within a few days by meteorological conditions thousands of miles away.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当然，如果你仅仅关注疼痛是否减轻的话（相对于潜在疾病的治愈而言），那么只要感觉有好转，针灸的效果是来自物理方面还是仅仅来自于心理方面实际上都无关紧要。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Of course, if your only concern is pain relief (as opposed to a cure of the underlying problem), it doesn’t really matter whether acupuncture’s effects are physical or merely psychological, as long as you feel better.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>艾滋病患者（又称<bpt i="1" type="1"/>PWAs<ept i="1"/>）在饮食方面所遭遇的两难困境表现为：患者一方面必须进行大量进食，另一方面又不得不防范饮食可能导致的疾病，改变食谱和用药，还要克服因药物治疗以及艾滋病本身而引发的食欲不振和消化不良。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The nutritional dilemma of persons with AIDS, or PWAs, is that they must eat abundantly yet they must also avoid foodborne illness, juggle foods and medications, and surmount the poor appetite and indigestion caused by their medications and by AIDS itself.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>似乎随着新千年的到来，微软的<bpt i="1" type="1"/>Word<ept i="1"/>也改变了我们文字处理的方式。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It seems that with the coming of a new Millenium, working in Microsoft Word has also changed the way we do word processing.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>法拉第所称的电化学当量就是现在所称的化学当量。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>What Faraday called the “electrochemical equivalent” is what is now called the chemical equivalent.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此图表明最大降水出现在印尼以东。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The figure shows that the maximum precipitation occurred to the east of Indonesia.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一位想要进行世界首例头颅移植手术的美国医生承认，手术受体很可能会排斥新移植的头颅。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>An American doctor who wants to perform the world’s first head transplant has conceded the host body would probably reject the new addition.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>唯一能决定把什么编写进操作系统的人是专业编程人员。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The only people who make the decisions on what went into the system were programmers.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>研究者们不清楚为何他们的牛犊显得与多莉如此迥异。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Researchers don’t know why their calves appear so different from Dolly.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这一发现引起了人们的担忧，即克隆动物或未来以克隆细胞为基础的医学治疗将会是短命的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>That finding raised fears that cloned animals or future medical treatments based on cloned cells would turn out to be short-lived.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>植株高度范围内的温度在白天会极大地增加，这不仅是由于空气的垂直交换受到抑制，而且也是由于“风障”结构向南倾斜从而使地表所反射的相当大的一部分太阳辐射又重新返回地表和植物。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A large increase of temperatures at the plant levels is obtained in the daytime not only from the suppression of vertical air exchange, but also by the fact that the “brush” structures are slanted to the south so that a considerable amount of the solar radiation reflected by the surface is redirected towards ground and plants.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这包括如下设想：在一种盐里，碱和酸分别具有阳电和阴电，在电解时，它们被吸引到相反的电极上并且由于电荷的中和而被释放出类。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This involves the idea that in a salt the base and acid have positive and negative charges, respectively, and that on electrolysis they are drawn to the oppositely-charged electrodes and liberated by neutralization of their charges.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>Vector<ept i="1"/>系列蠕动泵的启动与停机便捷可靠，并能持续泵送具各种压力值和流量值的浆状、汁状、塑胶状或厚重状的液体。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Vector series peristaltic pumps can reliably start, stop and continuously pump fluids that are pasty, pulpy, plastic or just plain thick at a wide range of pressures and flows.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>已经研究出一种取决于某些盐类的不溶性的金属定性分析法。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A system of qualitative analysis of the metals has been devised that depends on the insolubility of certain salts.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们几乎没有注意的很神奇的物质变化每天都在眼前发生。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Very wonderful changes in matter take place before our eyes everyday to which we pay little attention.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这不是我所希望的那种仪器。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This instrument is not such as I expect.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>酒精是易燃的，苯和汽油也是一样。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Alcohol is combustible, as are benzene and gasoline.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一种称为电子的小粒子绕原子核旋转。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The electrons, as one kind of the small particles is called, revolve round the nucleus.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>经常提到的这类要点对于掌握尖端科学技术是不可或缺的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Such points as are often mentioned are essential to the mastery of sophisticated science and technology.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这个实验需要多少仪器设备，你最好就预先准备好多少。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>You’d better get ready beforehand as many instruments as are necessary for your experiment.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>普通原子总是具有与电子数一样多的质子。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Ordinary atoms always have the same number of protons as they do of electrons.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>磁场可用和电相同的方式加以表示。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A magnetic field may be represented in the same manner as an electronic field.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>实验中的这些老鼠并没有遵循与处于并非过度拥挤的群体中的老鼠相同的行为模式。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The rats in the experiments did not follow the same patterns of behavior as rats would in a community without overcrowding.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如前所述，这座炉子已经停止操作了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This furnace, as has been mentioned above, has been shut down.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>生物钟使我们成为在上午九点时不同于下午三点时的人。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Biological rhythms make us a different person at 9 a.m. than we are at 3 p.m.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在力的作用下，没有一种材料不或多或少地变形。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There is no material but still deform more or less under the action of force.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这是一种用于不能有一点儿污染或者环境要求高的工艺过程的理想系统。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This is an ideal system for processes that cannot tolerate even a hint of contamination or where environmental issues are a concern.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>γ射线不受电场影响；它们不过是β射线在通过一些固体物质时作用于它们而产生的极短的χ射线。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>The gamma rays are not affected by an electric field and are nothing but a very short <ept i="1"/>χ<bpt i="2" type="2"/>-rays which are produced by the action of he beta rays on some of the solid material through which they pass.<ept i="2"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>尚不会给计算机安装操作系统的人们可以前往求助的一个地方便是书店。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>One place people who cannot yet manage to boot up their computers can turn to for help is bookstore.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>通过将这只老鼠的<bpt i="1" type="1"/>DNA<ept i="1"/>与人类<bpt i="2" type="2"/>DNA<ept i="2"/>的基因进行比较，他们得以鉴别出一种他们认为可以在调整食欲方面发挥关键作用的基因。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>By comparing the mouse DNA with genes in human DNA, they were able to identify one that believe could play a key role in regulating appetite.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当我们谈论某人的个性时，我们指的就是将这个人于其他人区分开来的其行为、言谈、思考和感觉的方式。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When we talk about someone’s personality, we mean the ways in which he or she acts, speaks, thinks and feels that make that individual different from others.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>正在得到广泛而大量研究的癌症的病因不久就将查清。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The causes of cancer, large amounts of research on which is being widely done, will soon be found out.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>所制造的大多数集成电路器件封装得很牢实。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Most devices of the integrated circuit, as are manufactured, are ruggedly packed.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>纳米技术被认为是<bpt i="1" type="1"/>21<ept i="1"/>世纪的一门重要的制作技术，它将能够以低成本制造出几乎任何化学成分稳定的结构。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Nanotechnology has been described as a key manufacturing technology of the 21<bpt i="1" type="2"/>st<ept i="1"/> century, which will be able to manufacture almost any chemically stable structure at low cost.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>已知有这样的一些元素，它们的原子通常只能和任何其他元素的一个原子化合。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Some elements are known the atoms of which usually do not combine with more than one atom of any other element.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>不过，英国的科研人员现已研究出利用干冰（固体二氧化碳）来清除的方法，清除后干冰完全气化，除了剥离下来的油漆和尘垢外不会产生任何残留废物。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>But British researchers have now developed a process using dry ice—solid carbon dioxide—which evaporates completely after doing the job and so generates no waste, apart from the material it dislodges.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>基本上有三种信息交换的类型，其分类是以计算机和外设的时间基准点为依据的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There are basically three types of information exchange, whose classification refers to the time references of the computer and the external devices.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>网络技术已得到拓展，可用来召开网络会议和进行实时通信；其功能就像是一个组件，为人们在网上，特别是内联网上的合作提供了便利。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Web technology has been extended to handle conferencing and real-time communications, to enable it to act like groupware, which facilitates people collaborating over a network, especially over an intranet.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>多巴胺对于人的运动机能至关重要，它就是一种神经传递素，可帮助将信息传递到纹状体。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Dopamine is crucial to human movement and is the neurotransmitter that helps transmit messages to the striatum that both initiates and controls your movement and balance.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>而后者既引发又控制人体的运动和平衡。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The solution may be to replace the silicon-based devices used today with minuscule carbon molecules, which would have another advantage:</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>解决方法也许是用微型碳分子来替代今天使用的硅基电子装置。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>they conduct heat much faster than silicon, and therefore would be more suitable for microelectronics.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>到那时，战场上的一切通讯任务，譬如坦克之间的沟通，坦克和直升机之间的联络，都可由激光来完成。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Robert White, who has successfully transplanted the heads of monkeys and dogs, is ready to move on to humans, in an operation he estimates would cost at least 1 million.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>罗伯特·怀特曾经成功地完成猴子和狗的头颅移植手术，现在他正准备在人类身上继续进行这项手术。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Concerns over cellular aging in clones center around telomeres, regions of DNA at the ends of chromosomes which shorten every time a cell divides.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>该手术据他估计至少会耗资一百万美元。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In the daytime, differences due to soil influences may be found only in a very shallow layer, perhaps within the first inch above the surface where the before-mentioned vertical heat transport is retarded due to friction influences in the boundary layer.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人们对克隆体细胞的老化的关注主要集中在染色体端粒，即位于染色体末端的脱氧核糖核酸区域。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Such waves occur most frequently at stormy latitudes, where the storms tend to come in groups traveling in the same direction, with only short periods separating them.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些染色体每分裂一次，其染色体端粒就缩短一次。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>More sophisticated models exist which take into account relative cost effectiveness of product lines in a given situation which varies in terms of growth of utilization over a predetermined number of years.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>白天，因土壤条件不同而造成的差异只有在十分浅薄的气层中（或许是在地表以上<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1<ept i="1"/>英寸高度范围内）才可能发现。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Manufacturers provide self-administered questionnaires to aid in the selection of the proper flowers, each of which is thought to correspond to an emotional or psychological state.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在那里风暴常常是成群出现的，它们沿着同一方向移动，彼此间只有很短的间隔时间。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When air is cooled to a point at which the air’s capacity to hold more water vapor is zero, saturation is reached.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>还有更复杂的模式，这些模式考虑了在给定的情况下，生产线的相对成本效益。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>By the time the pressure has fallen to atmospheric pressure, the temperature will drop also to the steam temperature at that temperature.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>而这个给定情况，在预定的若干年里是随着利用的增长而变化的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Each time the current changes directions, a period of no current, known as slack water, intervenes.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>制造商提供自填调查问卷，帮助患者选择合适的花卉种类。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Whenever a wave moves out from a source in uniform medium, it travels in straight lines.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>其中的每一种花只对某一特定情绪或心理状态有效。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Typhoon and hurricanes do not form exceptionally large waves, because their winds, although very strong, do not blow long enough from one direction.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当空气进一步冷却到容纳更多水汽的能力为零时，就达到了饱和状态。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In summer people feel sticky in that relative humidity is quite high.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>到压力降到了大气压力之时，温度也将降到常压下蒸汽的温度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Methane liquefies, if it is cooled and compressed.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>每当潮流改变方向时，中间都有一段叫做平潮的无潮流阶段。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Seeing that there is often poor visibility, the site chosen as an airport is not appropriate.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>每当<bpt i="1" type="1"/>/<ept i="1"/>凡是波从均匀介质中的波源移出时，它都呈现直线传播。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>As a result, the tsunami of 1957 killed no one in Hawaii, though water levels were locally higher than 1946.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>台风和飓风并不会形成特大的巨浪，因为这些风虽然很强，但它们并不能沿着同一方向长时间地吹。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The residual effects of the cloud clusters are generally ignored even though the area they cover is perhaps an order of magnitude larger than the convective region itself.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>此书处于静止状态，或者用物理术语来讲处于静力平衡，并不是因为没有力作用在它上面，而是因为作用其上的力彼此互相抵消。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Just as water will run downhill, so heat, if left to itself, flows down the temperature “hill” (gradients).</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>夏季人们感到皮肤黏糊糊的是因为相对湿度很高。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Tuberculosis, once considered a disease of the past, has re-emerged to such an extent that it has been declared a global emergency by WHO.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>甲烷会液化，如果它受到冷却和压缩的话。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The broader the range of network services is, the more capabilities a network can provide to users connected to it.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>鉴于这里能见度经常欠佳，所以将此地选为机场是不适当的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Horizontal-cavity lasers emit light at the edge of the chip, in the same plane as the junction layer, whereas vertical-cavity lasers emit light from the flat chip surface.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>结果，<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1957<ept i="1"/>年夏威夷的海啸没有造成一人死亡，虽然局部水位比<bpt i="2" type="2"/>1946<ept i="2"/>年还高。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>After the concept of temperature became understood, there were many years of scientific development before the real nature of heat was established.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>云团的残余影响通常是忽略不计的，即使它们覆盖的地区可能比对流区本身大一个量级。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Meteorological science and technology have grown to the extent that behaviors of the atmosphere could be monitored on a global basis.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>就像水总是流下山一样，热若听其自然也会沿着“热坡（温度坡度）”而下。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>While some labs plan to delete genes from pig donors, others are busy putting in new ones.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>曾一度被认为不复存在的肺结核又卷土重来，来势之猛令世界卫生组织向全球发出告急。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The paper and plastic caps prevent heat losses by convection almost entirely, so that after a few weeks when the caps are removed in spring, such plants are better developed and reach maturity earlier than those grown under natural conditions.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>网络服务的范围越广，网络就能为接入的用户提供越多的功能。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>We define nanotechnology simply as the art and science of building molecular structures so that they are sufficiently large and complex to function as machines or devices.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>水平腔激光器是在芯片边缘，在与夹层相同的平面上发光，而垂直腔激光器则是从芯片扁平的表面上发光的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Each marginal sea, or bay, is affected by the tide in much the same way as the Atlantic is affected by the wave from the Antarctic.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在人们理解了温度的概念以后，又经过多年的科学研究才确定了热的真正性质。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This interrupt routine is like a subroutine, except that instead of being called by an instruction in the program it is triggered by a hardware input signal.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>气象科学和技术已发展到可在全球范围内监测大气特性的程度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>By analogy with semiconductor technology one speaks of doping the polymer when it is subjected to oxidation with iodine vapor.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一些实验室计划从猪的器官供体中去除一些基因，而其他一些实验室则正在忙于往器官供体中添加一些新的基因。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>As a rule, the temperature in the troposphere decreases steadily with increasing altitude until the tropopause is reached.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些纸罩和塑料罩几乎全部阻止了对流热的损失，以致几周后到春季将这些盖罩取走时，这些植物比在自然条件下生长要发育得好些，成熟期也要早些。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Users are advised to ignore any overt illness, instead of asking themselves how they feel and what emotions they are experiencing, since the flower remedies are intended to treat psychological states, not physical disease.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们将纳米技术简单地定义为构建分子结构使其大小和复杂程度足以发挥机器或装置之功能的艺术与科学。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Coke is essential in the winning of iron from its ores and would be prepared for this purpose whether or not the coal tat were collected and utilized.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>每一边缘海即海湾都受到潮水的影响，其发生方式与大西洋受到来自南极的波浪影响类似。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>Frozen at around -35<ept i="1"/>℃<bpt i="2" type="2"/>, mercury is not used in thermometers where extremely low temperature may be expected.<ept i="2"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这个中断服务程序很像子程序，所不同的是，它不是由程序中的指令调出的，而是由硬件输入信号触发的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Reportedly the yield per acre has been 30% increased insomuch as modern agricultural technologies are practiced in this hilly region.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>与半导体技术相类似，当聚合物受到碘蒸汽氧化之时，就是人们所谓的掺杂聚合物过程。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The induced emf is in such a direction that it opposes the change of current.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>通常，对流层的温度一直到对流层顶都是随高度增加而不断降低的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>However, many diabetics would be sicker, or dead, without Rezulin, given that its two alternatives were not available in 1997 and 1998.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于花卉疗法旨在调理心理状态而非治疗身体疾患，所以患者应该忽略外显的疾病，转而问自己感觉如何以及自己处于何种情绪状态下。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Although chlorofluorocarbons or CFCs do not harm the environment near the ground, they slowly travel upwards to the ozone layer where they are broken down by UV light into chlorine atoms, which eat away at the ozone.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>从铁矿中炼取铁，焦煤是必不可少的；为此，无论煤焦油收集和利用与否，焦煤总是要炼的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The primary deposition of sodium may be shown at a cathode of mercury, when sodium amalgam will be formed and very little hydrogen evolved.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于水银在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>-35<ept i="1"/>℃左右会冻结，所以在极端低温可能出现的地区它不用于温度计。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Part or all of the light may be reflected, absorbed, or transmitted by the thing or object that comes into its way.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>根据报道，由于现代农业技术在这一带丘陵地区的实行，每英亩的产量已增加<bpt i="1" type="1"/>30%<ept i="1"/>。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The atomic theory was not accepted until the 19<bpt i="1" type="2"/>th<ept i="1"/> century.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>感应电动势的方向朝向阻止电流发生改变的那个方向。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The hypothesis will be rejected if it is not proved by any experiment.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>然而，若是没有<bpt i="1" type="1"/>Rezulin<ept i="1"/>，若是该药的两种替代药物没有在<bpt i="2" type="2"/>1997<ept i="2"/>和<bpt i="3" type="3"/>1998<ept i="3"/>年推出，许多糖尿病患者将会病情加重甚至死亡。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Weather is determined by the simultaneous occurrence of several meteorological elements at a geographical locality or over broad areas of the earth.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>虽然氟利昂（<bpt i="1" type="1"/>CFC<ept i="1"/>）并不损害地面附近的环境，但他们会缓慢上升至臭氧层，在那里被紫外线分解为氯原子，后者大量吞噬臭氧。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This communications link is achieved by the watch using a photo-sensitive cell to pick up dots on cathode-ray-tube screens.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>钠的初次沉淀可以在水银阴极看到，这时钠汞齐就将形成，并有少量的氢放出。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Rainbows are formed when sunlight passes through small drops of water in the sky.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一部分的光或全部的光可能被挡住其去路的东西或物体反射、吸收或透射。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is estimated that in the short time since Rezulin’s introduction, it has been used to treat 1.9 million people.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>原子学说直到十九世纪才为人们所接受。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The sense of inferiority that he acquired in his youth has never been totally eradicated.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一个假说如果不能借助实验加以证明的话，就会遭到排斥。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Other questions will be discussed briefly.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>天气是由在地球表面的某一地理位置或者广袤地区同时出现的若干气象要素的综合作用所决定的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The problem must be dealt with at the appropriate time.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种通信联络是靠手表利用光敏元件读取阴极射线管屏幕上的光电实现的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>More than 3,000,000 cars are now produced by all factories in China every year.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>彩虹是阳光穿过天空中的小水滴时形成的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>More power is likely to be needed during the winter.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>据估计，自<bpt i="1" type="1"/>Rezulin<ept i="1"/>面市至今的不长时期内，就已有一百九十万人利用这一药物进行治疗。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It would be astonishing if that loss were not keenly felt.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>他在青少年时期留下的自卑感还没有完全消除。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It has been thought that radium radiations might be useful in curing various diseases.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果人们没有强烈地感受到损失，那倒是令人惊诧了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>As far as 1920s attention was directed towards the problem.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人们认为镭的射线可以用来治疗各种疾病。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The reasonable use must be made of the natural resources.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>中国国际威望的不断提高使汉语在国际上的地位得到进一步强化，想学汉语的外国人越来越多了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Release of the heat of fusion is believed to alter the pressure gradient in such a way as to diminish the destructive winds near the storm center.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>有关疾病管理的种种不现实的主张已有所闻，而最新的医疗改革举措也起了推波助澜的作用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Individual jet maxima are frequently found to be located at the tips of deep low-pressure troughs.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>早在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>20<ept i="1"/>世纪<bpt i="2" type="2"/>20<ept i="2"/>年代，人们就注意这一问题了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The problem of the earth becoming warm was seriously discussed by the scientists present.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们一定要合理利用自然资源。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Changes in architecture are usually not easily made in tightly or “closely” coupled systems of multiminis.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人们认为融解热的释放可以改变气压梯度，使得风暴中心附近的破坏力得以减小。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>With the temperature unchanged, the air is made to reach condensation by adding water.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人们常常发现，个别急流的最大风速中心位于深低压槽的底端。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Even today, specific forecasts are only made for the period of 3 to 5 days in advance.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>与会的科学家对地球变暖的问题进行了认真的讨论。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>During the experiment, moisture was measured twice a day at 20-cm intervals between 0 and 80 cm of the soil.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在多小型机的“紧耦合”或“近耦合”系统中，通常很难做到在其结构上的改变。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>An on-line energy detector is used to monitor the laser energy, making the operation procedure simple and laser power accurate.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在温度不变的条件下，通过加入水汽而使空气达到饱和。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Water can be shown as containing impurities.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>即便当今也只能对未来<bpt i="1" type="1"/>3<ept i="1"/>～<bpt i="2" type="2"/>5<ept i="2"/>天的天气作出具体预报。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It has been proved that drug abuse is one of the approaches to developing AIDS.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在实验中，一天两次对<bpt i="1" type="1"/>0<ept i="1"/>～<bpt i="2" type="2"/>80<ept i="2"/>厘米土壤层每隔<bpt i="3" type="3"/>20<ept i="3"/>厘米处测定温度。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A proton has a positive charge and an electron has a negative charge, but a neutron has neither.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>使用在线实时能量探测器检测激光能量，从而简化操作环节、准确调控激光能量。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>None of the real structures are absolutely rigid.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>可以证明水中含有杂质。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>All metals are found not to conduct electricity equally well.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>业已证明，吸毒是感染艾滋病的途径之一。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>But friction is not always useless, in certain cases it becomes a helpful necessity.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>质子带正电荷，电子带负电荷，但中子不带任何电荷。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>All germs are invisible to the naked eye.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>现实的结构中没有一个是绝对刚性的结构。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In practice, error sometimes always seems unavoidable.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>人们发现，并非所有金属都能同样好地导电。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Likewise, few doctors believe that fasting, in itself, has any lasting therapeutic effects.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>可是摩擦并不总是无用的，在某些情况下它是有益的、必需的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>DMA involves the isolation of all devices, other than the single device to be used for data transfer, from the memory while the data transfer between memory and the appropriate peripheral is taking place.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>同样，很少有医生相信禁食本身会有任何持续的治疗效果。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Edge-emitters cannot be tested until the wafer is chopped up and each laser chip is mounted on a test rig or in the device in which it is to be packaged.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1"/>DMA<ept i="1"/>技术要求在存储器与适宜的外设间进行数据传输时，把全部装置（而非仅指用于数据传输的那个装置）都从存储器分离开来。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A book may be compared to your neighbor; if it be good, it cannot last too long; if bad, you cannot get rid of it too early.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一次快速的实情核查证实，计算机实际上不仅没有减少用纸量，相反却使之增加。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>We don’t choose our favorite color as we grow up; we are born with our preference.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>只有在芯片被切割成形并安装到试验台上，或安装到要组装的激光器上之后，才能对边缘发射型激光器进行测试。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The absence of air also explains why the stars do not seem to twinkle in space, as they do from the earth.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一本书好比你的邻居。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The engine didn’t stop because the fuel was finished.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果是本好书，保持的时间越久越好；如果是本坏书，则越早摒弃越好。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>A probe sent by NASA exploded before reaching the planet last year and it now doesn’t look as if there'll be another Mars visit until the end of the decade.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们并非是在我们长大成人的过程中选择我们所喜爱的色彩的；我们是生来就具有对某种色彩的偏爱。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>No part of the soil can act as plant food unless it is first dissolved.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>没有空气也解释了为什么了行星在太空里看起来不像从地球上看上去那样闪烁的原因。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Mining engineers and civil engineers cannot excavate mines or build structures without knowledge of rock mechanics.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这台发动机并非因为燃油耗尽而停车。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Unfortunately, there was not an atom of evidence to convince the scientists in this field.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>去年美国宇航局发射的一颗火星探测器在到达火星之前爆炸失事；现在看来，在本十年结束前似乎是不会有下一次的火星探测任务了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The derivatives of carbonic acid which are of interest to the organic chemists are usually prepared neither from carbon dioxide nor carbonates.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果植物养料不加以溶解，那么土壤的任何部分都不能起到植物养料的作用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There exist neither perfect insulators nor perfect conductors.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>采矿工程师和土木工程师不懂得岩石力学就不能开凿矿山和修造建筑物。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>First comes a gradual change in water level, the forerunner, a few hours ahead of the storm’s arrival.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>遗憾的是，没有一丁点证据能令这一领域的科学家们信服。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Then followed the discovery of a new radioactive element by Mrs. Curie, which was named plutonium.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>令有机化学家感兴趣的碳酸衍生物通常既不是由二氧化碳，也不是由碳酸盐制备的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>From this accidental discovery developed the enormous benefits of stainless steel.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>既不存在完美绝伦的绝缘体，也不存在完美无缺的导电体。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The lightest element is hydrogen, the atom of which consists of a nucleus of only proton, around which revolves one electron.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>首先出现水位的逐渐变化，这是风暴到达前几小时的先兆。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In this picture is shown a new type of computer.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>然后，随之而来的是居里夫人发现了一种新的放射性元素，命名为钚。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>So was born the echo-sounding apparatus, now in general use in ships.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由这一偶然的发现开发出不锈钢的巨大裨益。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Above the troposphere is the stratosphere, followed by the ionosphere and capped by the exosphere.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>最轻的元素是氢，其原子由只有一个质子的原子核构成，且只有一个电子环绕该质子运行。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Within this area is a double minimum in pressure with one center collocated with the vorticity maximum and the other about 3 km farther north.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>图片中展示的是一种新型计算机。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Among the noxious compounds that form after a few hours of complex chemical cookery is ozone.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种回声探测仪就这样问世了，而今普遍应用于各种船只。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>More intriguing is using the same pump/motor combination to create a regenerative braking system.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在对流层上是平流层，接着是电离层，最上层是外逸层。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Much more important than the element itself are some of its compounds.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在这一区域内有一对最小气压中心，一个与最大涡度中心相重合，另一个则位于更向北<bpt i="1" type="1"/>3<ept i="1"/>千米左右处。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>To be particularly considered are the following mechanisms.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>经过几小时复杂的化学变化后所生成的有害化合物中就有臭氧。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Still undergoing pilot tests is another composite fuel, a mixture of coal particles, water and additives.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>更为诱人的是利用这种液压泵兼马达装置来床在一个再生制动系统。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Surrounding the earth is a layer of air of unknown thickness.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>比这种元素本身更重要得多的是它的某些化合物。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Written on the label is the model of the machine.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>要特别给以考虑的是下列机理。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Not until August 1974 did the expeditionary observations begin.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>尚在进行中间试验的是另一种符合燃料—煤粉，水和添加剂的混合物。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Not only has the probability of surprise awakened the interest, but also the fact that most of the living world and of the food-producing plants occupy the thin layer beneath the conventional observation height.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>包绕地球的是一层不知其厚度为多少的空气。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>But only very recently have they solved the problem of finding the right conditions for making a dense deposit which will firmly adhere.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>标签上写的是这台机器的型号。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Only when its melting-point temperature is reached does iron start to pass into a liquid.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>直到<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1974<ept i="1"/>年<bpt i="2" type="2"/>8<ept i="2"/>月考察探险活动才开始。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Coal has been found in this region, and so has oil.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>引起人们对此产生兴趣可能不仅是出自惊讶好奇，而且也是由于下列事实：大部分生物和大多数粮食作物都生存于这一常规观测高度一下的浅薄气层中。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The frequencies higher than 20,000 vibrations per second generally cannot be heard, nor can these high frequencies normally be felt.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>但只是在最近他们才解决了下列问题，即找出在电镀时能产生牢固黏附作用的致密沉积物的适宜条件。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There is no known nutritional means of curing or preventing infection by HIV, the retrovirus that causes AIDS.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>只有当达到熔点温度时，铁才开始变成液体。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Neither can nutritional measures alone prevent wasting.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>煤已经在该地区发现，而且也发现了石油。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>When the moon changes its position, so do the orientation of the tide-generating forces and the position of the equilibrium tide.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>高于每秒两万次震荡的频率一般是无法听见的，而这样高的频率通常也是无法感觉到的。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Indoor relative humidity has a low value in cold weather and is then a better measure of the drying effect on skin than is outdoor relative humidity.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>目前还没有找到饮食手段来治疗或预防引发艾滋病的反转录病毒<bpt i="1" type="1"/>HIV<ept i="1"/>的感染。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Carbon monoxide is poisonous, as are the gases we are going to discuss in the next chapter.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>也无法仅靠饮食手段来防止非脂肪组织缺失。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Air occupies space just as does any other fluid.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>当月亮的位置改变时，引潮力的取向和平衡潮的位置也随之改变。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Tiny particles of one substance are dispersed throughout the other, as are particles of a solute throughout the solvent in a solution.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>寒冷季节室内相对湿度值很低，因而它在量度湿度对皮肤的致干效应方面比室外相对湿度效果更好。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Complicated though the problem is, it can be solved in only two hours with an electronic computer.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如我们将在下一章里讨论的那些气体一样，一氧化碳同样是有毒气体。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Tremendous as was the destructive power of the atom, its potentialities for peace were even greater.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如同我们将在下一章里讨论的那些气体一样，空气也要占据空间。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>All magnets behave the same, be they larger or small.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>一种物质的微小颗粒在另一种物质中到处扩散的方式同溶液内一种溶剂到处扩散的方式一样。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Simple and clear window display providing operators with a convenient operation environment makes easier editing a patient's data and modifying the surgery parameters.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这问题虽然很复杂，但用一台电子计算机只需两个小时即可解决。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In chemical formula, the symbol for hydrogen is H; for oxygen O; for nitrogen N.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>尽管原子具有巨大的破坏力，其用于和平用途的潜力却更加巨大。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It involves the hydration of the silicates in the mixture and probably also of calcium oxide.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>所有的磁体，无论大小，都具有相同的性能。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Ice keeps the same temperature while melting.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>简单明了的系统窗口显示为操作人员提供了方便的操作环境，使得编辑患者资料和修改手术参数变得更为轻松。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>An object, once in motion, will keep on moving because of its inertia.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在化学式中，氢的符号是<bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>H<ept i="1"/>，氧的符号是<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/>O<ept i="2"/>，氮的符号是<bpt i="3" type="3"/>N<ept i="3"/>。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg><bpt i="1" type="1" x="1"/>If put together and heated to 25<ept i="1"/>℃<bpt i="2" type="2" x="2"/> at constant pressure, these substances will result in a new compound.<ept i="2"/></seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>它牵涉到混合料中硅酸盐的水化作用；很有可能地牵涉到氧化钙的水化作用。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Prolonged fasting is an extremely effective—though not necessarily desirable—way to lose weight in a hurry.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>如果把这些物质放在一起并在常压下加热到<bpt i="1" type="1"/>25<ept i="1"/>℃。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>BY some estimates, between 50 and 70 percent of patients with chronic pain receive at least temporary relief when treated with acupuncture, and some experience long-term relief as well.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>持续性禁食是极其有效的—虽然不是绝对理想的—一种快速减肥方法。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Apart from accumulation of fat, deer are provided with further means by which to survive.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于分子的内能越小该分子就越稳定，因此共振的存在就相应的会有稳定性的增加。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Sound is conducted through steel in the same manner as through air.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>据估计，约<bpt i="1" type="1"/>50%<ept i="1"/>～<bpt i="2" type="2"/>70%<ept i="2"/>的慢性疼痛病患者在接受针灸治疗后，至少会有暂时的缓解，而另一些人则能感受到长期的效果。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Large temperature and salinity changes occur in shallow, partially isolated coastal waters, a degree of variability well beyond anything observed in the open ocean.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>除了积累脂肪以外，鹿还被赋予了进一步的借以越冬生存的手段。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Everybody should know clearly at which speed to drive their cars when they are driving on the superhighways.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>声音通过钢而传导的方式与它通过空气传导的方式完全一样。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The crop did not grow well what with species and what with non-uniform top application of fertilizer, according to an agronomist.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>温度和盐度的显著变化出现在浅的、部分孤立的沿海水域，其变化程度远远超过可在公海内观测到的任何因素。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is this symbol that makes flowcharts so valuable, because it directs us to different routes when necessary.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>每一个人都应该清楚地知道，当他们驾车驶上高速公路时，他们应以什么速度驾驶汽车。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It isn’t Watt who invented the telephone.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这种庄稼长得不好，据一位农学家看一方面是由于品种，另一方面是由于追肥不匀。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It was for their discovering polonium and radium that Mrs. Curie and her husband were both awarded the Nobel Physics Prize in 1903.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>正是这个符号赋予流程图以极大价值，因为它在必要时会把我们引向不同的路径。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is only when particles are close enough to exert relatively large forces on one another that they are able to set each other into this type of vibration.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>发明电话的并不是瓦特。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It is which experiment should be done first that they will discuss tomorrow.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>正是由于发现了钋和镭，居里夫人和丈夫于<bpt i="1" type="1"/>1903<ept i="1"/>年双双获得了诺贝尔物理学奖。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Why on earth is it that no one has received his inventive idea as scientific?</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>只有当粒子紧密到能够相互施加较大的力时，它们才能使彼此产生这样的振动。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>What is more revolutionary is that the Web can lead to greater political involvement in decision making for ordinary people, via e-voting systems.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>他们明天将要讨论的是应该先做哪一个试验。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>What I should do next is to carry out the perfect plan.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>没有人认为他的富有创造性的见解是科学的，这究竟是为什么？</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Acupuncture is promoted as a treatment for pain—and there is absolutely no question that it does in fact provide short-term benefit for many of the people who try it.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>更具革命性的是，万维网可以引导普通百姓借助于电子投票系统参与较为重大的政治决策。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>This is because it was discovered ten years ago that some conjugated polymers exhibit electro-luminescence:</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>我们下一步应该做的就是执行这个完美的计划。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>they glow when a voltage passes through them.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>针灸现在越来越多地用于治疗疼痛—毫无疑问，事实上针灸的确为这一疗法的许多尝试者带来了短期效果。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The understanding of atmospheric processes, which is essential for successful prediction, also affords opportunities to modify weather deliberately for useful purposes and may make it possible to anticipate the inadvertent, deleterious effects before it is too late to avoid them.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>例如，原来含有氢、氯、液态水三者的气态混合物系，就水蒸汽和液态水而言，很快便会趋达平衡，其间经由水的气化，直至其气相水蒸汽的分压与处于此物系温度下的液态水的蒸汽压大致相等为止。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In consequence of these forces, and the repulsive forces which occur between all ions or molecules when they get so close to one another that their electronic structures are in contact, the ions piled up together in a regular way, each sodium ion surrounding itself with six chloride ions as nearest neighbors, and keeping all other sodium ions somewhat farther away.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>由于这些力的结果，也由于离子或分子相互之间十分靠近以致使其电子结构发生接触而产生排斥力的结果，离子以一种规则的方式聚集在一起，每个钠离子有六个氯离子作为最近的邻居环绕周围，但和其他钠离子保持较远一些的距离。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>But even more interesting and significant facts have been disclosed by a study of the products formed by replacing one hydrogen atom of benzene by another atom or group.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>用另一原子或基取代苯的一个氢原子就形成了一些产物，而对于这些产物的研究已揭示出一些更为有趣和有意义的事实。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>To a greater extent than was formerly thought to be the case the monsoons appear to be in the nature of various kinds and degrees of modification of the general planetary wind system.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>季风看来具有可对行星总风系进行各种各样、程度不一的调整的性质，这比以往更为可信。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>There are swift flowing rivers, slow, sluggish rivers, mighty rivers with several mouths, rivers that carry vast loads of alluvium to the sea, clear, limpid rivers, rivers that at some seasons of the year have very much more water than at others.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>有的河水流湍急，有的河流速缓慢，有的河波涛汹涌有好几处出海口，有的河带着大量冲击土入海，有的河清澈见底，有的河水量在一年中某些季节要远远多于其他季节。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>New York City, which has turned its last 20 years of garbage into the highest peak on the Eastern Seaboard, in a Staten Island landfill that will soon run out of space, is preparing to spend $2.5 billion on the construction of eight trash-to-energy plants, and billions more to operate them.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>纽约市过去<bpt i="1" type="1"/>20<ept i="1"/>年里已经用它的垃圾把斯塔登岛填埋场堆积成东海岸最高的山峰，而且该填埋场很快就将没有空地了。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>It would damage you at 20,000 feet up too, if you breathed it there, which is why jets flying through the ozone-rich upper atmosphere filter air through a catalytic converter before piping it to the passengers.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>因此，该市正准备耗资<bpt i="1" type="1"/>25<ept i="1"/>亿美元修建八座垃圾发电厂，并且打算再花费几十亿美元让这些发电厂投入运转。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>One system for molecular modeling and for the computer-aided design of proteins, the Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry at Yale reported that an algorithm developed in collaboration with Frederic Richards has been quite successful in generating sequences of hydrophobic amino acids which will successfully pack to form the core of a protein with a specified backbone geometry.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>要是在<bpt i="1" type="1"/>20 000<ept i="1"/>英尺高空吸入臭氧，它也会对人造成伤害。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The voltage of a concentration cell depends on the greater tendency of copper ions, e.g., in the concentrated solution to deposit on copper, on account of the greater osmotic pressure, than copper ions in dilute solution.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>正因为如此，喷气式飞机在穿越臭氧很多的大气层上部时，先让空气经过装有催化剂的转化器过滤，然后再通过管道输送给乘客。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Although modified, protein-sparing fasts are considered a reasonably safe way for the dangerously obese to quickly bring down their weight, this approach is no longer favored by most doctors due to the abrupt rebound that almost invariably occurs when the patient resumes eating.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>据耶鲁大学分子生物物理学及生物化学系报道，该系与弗雷德里克·理查兹就分子模拟系统以及蛋白质计算机辅助设计系统进行合作，以推导出一种可以产生疏水性氨基酸序列的十分成功的算法，该序列将可成功地聚合生成具有一种特定主轴几何形状的蛋白核。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The efforts that have been made to explain optical phenomena by means of the hypothesis of a medium having the same physical character as an elastic solid body led, in the first instance, to the understanding of a concrete example of a medium which can transmit transverse vibrations, and at a later stage to the definite conclusion that there is no aluminiferous medium having the physical character assumed in the hypothesis.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>与稀溶液的铜离子相比，浓溶液的铜离子因浓溶液的渗透压力较大而具有较大的沉积于铜极的倾向；而浓差电池的电压就决定于这一倾向。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>At the turn of the century, the world underwent a new revolution driven by information technology and the Internet.Many developed countries have pumped a large amount of capital into the information sector to seek solutions.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>尽管蛋白质禁食经过改进后被视为是一种可使过度肥胖者迅速消除体重的合理而安全的方法，但现在大部分医生不再偏爱这种方法。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>In China, industrialization has not yet been realized and most companies are operating at a pretty low level of technology and management efficiency.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>因为一旦患者恢复饮食，体重绝对会迅速反弹。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Information is at an early stage and information flows tend to be blocked, and also inaccurate.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>为了解释光学现象，人们曾试图假设存在一种其物理性质与弹性固体相同的介质。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>At present, most companies in China, in particular the China’s state-owned enterprises (SOEs), have retained traditional managerial styles and the organization.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>这些努力最初曾使人们了解到一种能传输横向振动的介质，而后得出明确的结论，即不存在具有上述假设中假定的物理性质的含铝介质。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Management and flow of information cannot keep pace with the demands of the market economy, thus hindering economic restructuring and further development.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>在世纪交替之际，世界经济经历了一场以信息技术和因特网为驱动力的新变革。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>Massive efforts should be made to restructure China’s large and medium-sized SOEs by relying on information technology, particularly when the trade barriers protecting China’s native industry are tumbling down in line with its WTO membership.</seg>
      </div> 
        <seg>许多发达国家将大量资金注入信息产业以寻求出路。</seg>
      <div style="margin-left: 20px">
        <seg>The technology allows the FM receiver to be in sleep mode most of time.</seg>
      </div></body>
</html>
